GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE
,WELCOME TO THE MARCH 18
MEETING OF THE HARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
PLEASE RISE AND JOIN US FOR A
MOMENT OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY
THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF OUR REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE.
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
.
HERE COMES MY HARRISON CUSTOMER
SONG HERE GOES MY WIFE TELLS ME
EVERYTHING THAT'S WORKED OUT
HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE COMES OUR IRE
HERE BECAUSE WE'RE HERE BECAUSE
OF BREAKS HERE.
BUT FOR NOW WE HAVE A QUORUM
AND A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL FOR A
SECOND TIME.
THE CANAL DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ON PAPER PROPOSED AGENDA
IS APPROVED TO HAVE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY AND OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO MAYOR.
WE HAVE A SET OF INTRODUCTIONS
TODAY FIRST FROM THAT DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MISS
THOMPSON.
MISS THOMPSON, YOU HAVE THE
YEAH.
OK, THANK YOU.
GOOD TO SEE EVERYBODY TONIGHT.
SO TONIGHT I AM HERE TO SHARE
WITH YOU SOME DATA WE HAVE
COLLECTED POST PANDEMIC I
MENTIONED THIS AT THE WORK
SESSION LAST WEEK.
WE'VE SUBSCRIBED TO DATA
SERVICES AND WE'VE JUST BEGUN
TO DIG INTO THIS DATA.
SO THERE'S THERE'S A TIME.
SO TONIGHT I JUST WANT TO GIVE
YOU A SNAPSHOT AND KNOW THAT I
WILL BE BACK WITH MORE SO THE
DATA I'M GOING TO SHARE TONIGHT
IS FROM A COMPANY CALLED PLACER
EHI.
THEY USE CELL PHONE DATA
FREQUENTLY CALLED BIG DATA TO
COUNT VISITS AND WHAT THEY DO
IS THEY CATEGORIZE THE VISITS
BASED ON HOW MUCH TIME IS SPENT
IN A PLACE AND WHEN THAT TIME
IS SPENT AND FROM THAT THEY
DIVIDE IT INTO THREE CATEGORIES
.
SO YOU HAVE VISITOR VISITS,
RESIDENT VISITS AND EMPLOYEE
VISITS.
SO FIRST WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT OVERALL VISITS DOWNTOWN
IN THE CONTEXT OF THE DENHA
MISSION WHICH IS TO STRENGTHEN
OUR DOWNTOWN.
SO WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR FROM
THIS DATA IS TO SEE IF WE ARE
MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN MAKING
OUR DOWNTOWN MORE RESILIENT IN
TERMS OF ACTIVITY.
SO WE'LL START WITH OVERALL
VISITS DOWNTOWN.
SO I'LL DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE TOP GRAPH AND I'LL POINT
OUT THAT BIG DIP YOU SEE
OBVIOUSLY IS THE PANDEMIC SO
YOU'VE GOT THE PRE PANDEMIC
ACTIVITY ON ONE SIDE POST
PANDEMIC ACTIVITY ON THE OTHER
SIDE AND WE AS A COMMUNITY
REALLY EBB AND FLOW WITH THE
UNIVERSITY'S CALENDAR.
AND ONE INTERESTING THING TO
POINT OUT POST PANDEMIC YOU CAN
SEE THAT IT APPEARS THAT WE'RE
EVEN MORE SENSITIVE TO THAT U
OF M SCHEDULE POST PANDEMIC.
THOSE PEAKS ARE HIGHER AND THE
DIPS ARE LOWER AND WE THINK
SOME OF THIS IS DUE TO THE FACT
THAT WE NO LONGER HAVE THAT
BASELINE OF OFFICE WORKERS IN
THE DAYTIME TO KIND OF BOOYA
ACTIVITY WHEN U OF M IS NOT IN
SESSION ANNUAL VISITS WE ARE
THE BOTTOM PARAGRAPH AND WE'RE
ACTUALLY BACK.
WE ARE BACK TO TWENTY EIGHTEEN
VISIT LEVELS
I WOULD VENTURE TO
GUESS HAVEN'T LOOKED AT THIS
BUT I WOULD SAY THE TIME OF DAY
OF THOSE VISITS HAS PROBABLY
SHIFTED BUT WE ARE BACK NOW
LET'S LOOK AT WHO MAKES UP
THESE VISITS SO WE'VE GOT THE
ORANGE AND BLUE BARS BLUE
REPRESENTS RESIDENT VISITS
ORANGE REPRESENTS EMPLOYEE
VISITS AND YOU CAN SEE THAT PRE
PANDEMIC OUR EMPLOYMENT GROWTH
WAS RISING PRETTY STEADILY ON
THE RESIDENT VISITS.
WE WERE RISING BUT NOT QUITE AT
THE LEVEL AS THOSE EMPLOYEE
VISITS AND THEN IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE THE WHOLE THING
FLIPPED.
SO WE LOST ALMOST A MILLION.
WE DID LOSE A MILLION EMPLOYEE
VISITS BUT WE GAINED ALMOST A
MILLION RESIDENT VISITS AND WE
THINK ON THE RESIDENTS SIDE WE
KNOW THAT DURING THE PANDEMIC
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONSTRUCTION
HAPPENING AND WE'RE ASSUMING
THAT SOME OF THOSE PROJECTS
CAME ONLINE CONTRIBUTING TO
THAT INCREASE IN RESIDENT
VISITS AND OF COURSE WITH OUR
NEW WORK ENVIRONMENT WE KNOW
THAT OUR DOWNTOWN OFFICES ARE
JUST NOT AS FULL AS THEY WERE
PREVIOUSLY FOR ANNUAL VISITOR
VISITS.
WE HAVE STEAD GROWTH AND THE
CHANGE IN VISITS REALLY SHOWS
HOW RESIDENT ACTIVITY JUST
CONTINUES TO INCREASE AS
EMPLOYEE VISITS DECREASE.
SO VISIT TRENDS AGAIN THIS IS
JUST SORT OF HIGHLIGHTING OUR
DEPENDANCE FOR VISITS ON A
UNIVERSITY SCHEDULE SO YOU CAN
SEE WE'RE STARTING IN JANUARY.
STUDENTS ARE IN SESSION.
YOU SEE A BIG DIP FOR WINTER
BREAK.
WE THEN STUDENTS COME BACK, WE
GO BACK UP.
YOU CAN SEE THE SUMMER BIG DIP
IN THE SUMMER FOR THE ENTIRE
SUMMER EXCEPT FOR OUR ONE YEAR
BUMP AND THEN CLASSES BEGIN,
FOOTBALL SEASON HAPPENS AND WE
SEE GREATER VISITS THIS YEAR
WITH EIGHT HOME FOOTBALL GAMES
THAT'S GOING TO REALLY SERVE
OUR DOWNTOWN REGIONAL COMMUNITY
WELL AND THEN SPENDING SO THIS
IS FROM A SERVICE CALLED
REPLICA.
WE REALLY HAVEN'T DONE MUCH
WORK ON THIS YET.
RIGHT.
ALL WE HAVE RIGHT NOW IS TWENTY
TWENTY TWO SPENDING DATA AND
I'M SHARING THIS JUST TO SHOW
THAT SPENDING ACTIVITY
GENERALLY JUST TRENDS WITH
VISIT ACTIVITY.
SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO LOOK AT
THE DDA SHOPPING DISTRICTS AS
COMPARED TO SHOPPING DISTRICTS
OUTSIDE OF THE DEA.
SO WE'LL BE LOOKING AT ON THAT
FIRST MAP THE BIG BLUE BLOCK
THE OR MAYBE IT'S PURPLE THE
OVERALL DDA DISTRICT AND THEN
WE'LL BE LOOKING AT THE MAIN
STREET DISTRICT, THE STATE
STREET DISTRICT S YOU AND
CARRIE TOWN AND I WANT TO POINT
OUT WITH CARRIE TOWN THAT
INCLUDES THE ENTIRE COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT OF CARRIE TOWN THAT IS
NOT JUST THE AREA ADJACENT TO
THE MARKET AND SHOPS AND THE
FARMER'S MARKET THAT AND THAT'S
RELEVANT WHEN YOU SEE THE THE
DATA I'M GOING TO SHARE.
SO FIRST WE'LL LOOK AT THE
OVERALL DENHA DISTRICT COMPARED
TO THE BRIARWOOD MALL AND THESE
ARE VISITOR VISITS.
THEY DON'T INCLUDE RESIDENT
VISITS OR EMPLOYEE VISITS AND
YOU CAN SEE THAT ACTIVITY IN
THE DENHA HAS GREATLY SURPASSED
ACTIVITY AT BRIARWOOD MALL.
THE DISTRICT IS UP A TOTAL
OF FOUR PERCENT AND BRIARWOOD
MALL HAS DECREASED BY THIRTY
ONE PERCENT AND ONE COULD INFER
THAT FREE ABUNDANT PARKING
DOESN'T NECESSARILY DRIVE
ACTIVITY.
SO NOW WE'LL LOOK AT THE
INDIVIDUAL SHOPPING DISTRICTS
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT MAIN STREET
AND STATE STREET HAVE THE
GREATEST VOLUME OF ACTIVITY.
THEY'RE ALSO THE LARGEST
GEOGRAPHIC PERFECTLY S YOU AND
CARRIE TOWN ARE MUCH SMALLER
AND THAT ALSO LEADS TO ANY
CHANGES IN THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS
TEND TO BE MORE PRONOUNCED.
SO IN LOOKING AT THE SHOPPING
DISTRICT DISTRICTS GENERALLY WE
ARE TRENDING IN A VERY POSITIVE
DIRECTION.
THE MAINSTREAM DISTRICT HAS
SEEN A NINE PERCENT INCREASE
STATE STREET FOURTEEN PERCENT S
YOUTH THIRTY PERCENT AND THEN
CARRIE TOWN HAS SEEN A DECREASE
OF ELEVEN PERCENT.
BUT I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT WE
DUG INTO THIS A LITTLE BIT
DEEPER AND THAT AREA OF FIFTH
AVE ADJACENT TO THE MARKET AND
SHOPS AND THE FARMER'S MARKET
HAS NOT SEEN A DECLINE WHERE WE
SEE THE DECLINE IS KIND
OF ALONG THE FRINGES OF THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH INCLUDES
CITY HALL AND THE COUNTY
BUILDINGS.
SO WE ARE THINKING THAT, YOU
KNOW, YOU'VE GOT THIS LOSS
OF EMPLOYEES SO YOU DON'T HAVE
PEOPLE COMING TO THE CO-OP FOR
LUNCH OR NO TIME FOR LUNCH.
AND THEN ON THE MUNICIPAL SIDE
DURING A PANDEMIC THE CITY
SHIFTED TO RESIDENTS BEING ABLE
TO DO A LOT OF THINGS ONLINE
AND IT SEEMS LIKE THOSE
BEHAVIORS PEOPLE HAVE PROBABLY
ADJUSTED TO THAT AND JUST NOT
AND JUST NOT COME BACK OUTSIDE
OF THE DAY.
MAPLE VILLAGE HAS REMAINED FLAT
HOURLY AND DOWN TWELVE POINT
FIVE PERCENT IN AUBURN HILLS IS
UP NINE PERCENT.
BUT THE COMBINED CHANGE YOU CAN
SEE INSIDE THE DDA UP 14
PERCENT, OUTSIDE THE DDA DOWN
FIVE PERCENT.
SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO LOOK AT
POST CONSTRUCTION VISITS TO OUR
PROJECT AREAS SO PROJECTS ARE
VETTED BASED ON A SET OF VALUES
THAT THE BOARD ADOPTED BACK IN
JULY OF TWENTY TWENTY AND
THROUGH OUR PROJECTS WE ARE
LOOKING TO CREATE SPACES WHERE
PEOPLE WANT TO BE SO DOING
THINGS LIKE SLOWING SLOWING
SPEEDS, INCREASING PEDESTRIAN
SPACE FOR OUTDOOR DINING AND
FOR WALKING, IMPROVING YOUR
CONNECTIONS DOWNTOWN THROUGH
OUR BIKEWAY SYSTEM.
SO WE ARE WORKING TO DO ALL
OF THESE THINGS THAT ATTRACT
PEOPLE WHICH THEN IN TURN
CREATES MORE VIBRANCY IN OUR
DOWNTOWN AND OUR THE DATA IS
SHOWING THAT OUR PROJECTS ARE
CREATING A POSITIVE IMPACT ON
THOSE VISITOR NUMBERS.
SO JUST CAN YOU PLEASE MOVE
AWAY FROM THE COUNCIL TABLE AND
MOVE BACK TO YOUR SEAT?
SO FIFTH IN DETROIT AT THE TOP
YOU CAN SEE A BEFORE PICTURE
OF THAT PROJECT PROJECT ON THE
BOTTOM IS AFTER AND THAT
CORRIDOR OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
UP FIFTEEN PERCENT FROM
PRECONSTRUCTION THE STATE
STREET DISTRICT, THE STATE
STREET PROJECT AREA I SHOULD
SAY AGAIN THE BEFORE PICTURES
ON THE TOP AFTER PICTURES ON
THE BOTTOM THAT PROJECT AREA IS
UP 18 PERCENT FIRST AND ASHLEY
STREET IS UP TWENTY EIGHT
PERCENT AND THE BIKEWAY
PROJECTS AND THIS INCLUDES
WILLIAM FIRST IN DIVISION WE
DID NOT INCLUDE MILLER
CATHERINE IN IN THESE NUMBERS
BECAUSE THERE IS A LOT
OF PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
CONSTRUCTION HAPPENING IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SIDEWALKS HAVE
BEEN CLOSED.
SO WE'RE GOING TO REVISIT THAT
ONCE OUR SIDEWALKS ARE OPEN.
BUT THOSE BIKEWAY PROJECT AREAS
ARE UP 30 PERCENT AND THAT IS
ALL I HAVE AND I'M YOU KNOW,
WELCOME OF YOU TO EMAIL ME IF
YOU HAVE QUESTIONS.
I KNOW THAT WAS A LOT AND I'M
HAPPY TO BRING BACK MORE AS WE
CONTINUE TO DOVE IN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
PRESENTATION.
WE NOW HAVE ANOTHER
INTRODUCTION THAT IS TO SAY
INTRODUCTION WITH RESPECT TO
MARCH TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AS
SOCIAL WORK PLEASE JOIN ME AT
THE PODIUM
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR COMING
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR COMING.
.
SO AS WE AS YOU ALL KNOW THE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR COMING.
CITY THAT ANN ARBOR VALUES
SO AS WE AS YOU ALL KNOW THE
VALUES HUMAN SERVICES IT VALUES
CITY THAT ANN ARBOR VALUES
AN ANALYSIS OF OF THE THE
VALUES HUMAN SERVICES IT VALUES
CONDITIONS OF OUR SOCIETY AND
AN ANALYSIS OF OF THE THE
THE THE ELEVATION AND SUPPORT
CONDITIONS OF OUR SOCIETY AND
FOR THOSE AMONG US WHO ARE IN
THE THE ELEVATION AND SUPPORT
NEED.
FOR THOSE AMONG US WHO ARE IN
AND WHILE THERE ARE LOTS
NEED.
OF AGENCIES AND PROFESSIONS
AND WHILE THERE ARE LOTS
THAT HIT THESE THESE CRUCIAL
OF AGENCIES AND PROFESSIONS
AREAS, IT IS IT IS FEW AND FAR
THAT HIT THESE THESE CRUCIAL
BETWEEN THAT THAT EXCEED THE
AREAS, IT IS IT IS FEW AND FAR
GOOD AND GREAT WORK DONE BY OUR
BETWEEN THAT THAT EXCEED THE
SOCIAL WORKERS.
GOOD AND GREAT WORK DONE BY OUR
AND SO FOR THAT PURPOSE ALONE
SOCIAL WORKERS.
AND FOR THE NOT COINCIDENTAL
AND SO FOR THAT PURPOSE ALONE
FACT AND CIRCUMSTANCE THAT WE
AND FOR THE NOT COINCIDENTAL
HAVE TWO SOCIAL WORKERS HERE AT
FACT AND CIRCUMSTANCE THAT WE
CITY COUNCIL CONSIDER GHAZI
HAVE TWO SOCIAL WORKERS HERE AT
EDWIN COUNCIL MEMBER SONG IT IS
CITY COUNCIL CONSIDER GHAZI
HIS TO MEET THAT WE EMPHASIZE
EDWIN COUNCIL MEMBER SONG IT IS
AND PROCLAIM MARCH TWENTY
HIS TO MEET THAT WE EMPHASIZE
TWENTY FOUR AS SOCIAL WORK
AND PROCLAIM MARCH TWENTY
MONTH WITH AND WHILE WHILE
TWENTY FOUR AS SOCIAL WORK
NOTHING BEATS ME READING AN
MONTH WITH AND WHILE WHILE
ENTIRE PROCLAMATION PERHAPS I
NOTHING BEATS ME READING AN
WILL SPARE US ALL AND JUST HIT
ENTIRE PROCLAMATION PERHAPS I
A COUPLE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS THAT
WILL SPARE US ALL AND JUST HIT
IS TO SAY WHEREAS SOCIAL WORK
A COUPLE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS THAT
IS A PROFESSION TRULY DEDICATED
IS TO SAY WHEREAS SOCIAL WORK
TO HELPING PEOPLE AND THE
IS A PROFESSION TRULY DEDICATED
PRIMARY MISSION OF SOCIAL WORK
TO HELPING PEOPLE AND THE
IS TO ENHANCE HUMAN WELL-BEING
PRIMARY MISSION OF SOCIAL WORK
AND HELP MEET THE BASIC AND
IS TO ENHANCE HUMAN WELL-BEING
COMPLEX NEEDS OF ALL PEOPLE AND
AND HELP MEET THE BASIC AND
ARE SOCIAL WORKERS WORK IN ALL
COMPLEX NEEDS OF ALL PEOPLE AND
FACETS OF OUR SOCIETY INCLUDING
ARE SOCIAL WORKERS WORK IN ALL
SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS,
FACETS OF OUR SOCIETY INCLUDING
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS, THE
SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS,
MILITARY, MENTAL HEALTH
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS, THE
CENTERS, SOCIAL SERVICE
MILITARY, MENTAL HEALTH
AGENCIES, CORPORATION AND
CENTERS, SOCIAL SERVICE
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
AGENCIES, CORPORATION AND
GOVERNMENT AND WHEREAS LOCAL
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
WORKERS ARE ON THE FRONT LINES
GOVERNMENT AND WHEREAS LOCAL
AND HELPING THIS NATION SOLVE
WORKERS ARE ON THE FRONT LINES
PRESSING SOCIAL PROBLEMS
AND HELPING THIS NATION SOLVE
INCLUDING INCREASED DEMAND FOR
PRESSING SOCIAL PROBLEMS
MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES, THE
INCLUDING INCREASED DEMAND FOR
OPIOID ADDICTION CRISIS AND
MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES, THE
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY.
OPIOID ADDICTION CRISIS AND
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY.
TAYLOR, MAYOR OF ANN ARBOR,
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
MICHIGAN IN RECOGNITION OF THE
TAYLOR, MAYOR OF ANN ARBOR,
NUMEROUS CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY
MICHIGAN IN RECOGNITION OF THE
SOCIAL WORKERS TO OUR COMMUNITY
NUMEROUS CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY
PROCLAIM THE MONTH OF MARCH
SOCIAL WORKERS TO OUR COMMUNITY
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AS NATIONAL
PROCLAIM THE MONTH OF MARCH
SOCIAL MONTH AND CALL UPON ALL
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AS NATIONAL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO JOIN THE
SOCIAL MONTH AND CALL UPON ALL
CITY AND IN CELEBRATION
OF YES
AND AND PLEASE ME MADAM.
ABSOLUTELY OK THANK YOU MAYOR
TAYLOR AND THANK YOU CITY
COUNCIL.
I WANT TO PAY TRIBUTE TO ALL
OF YOU FOR RECOGNIZING THE
VALUABLE ROLE THAT SOCIAL
WORKERS PLAY IN OUR SOCIETY
THROUGH THIS SOCIAL WORK MONTH
PROCLAMATION.
I'M BACK ANGEL.
I'M THE DEAN OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SCHOOL OF SOCIAL
WORK AND I HAPPENED TO BE HERE
WITH ONE OF OUR ABOUT TO
GRADUATE
MSW STUDENTS
KEVIN WYNN AND I HAVE AS DEAN
THE INCREDIBLE PLEASURE
OF WITNESSING THE PASSION AND
DEDICATION OF STUDENTS LIKE
KEVIN AND OUR SOCIAL WORK
GRADUATES LIKE OUR TWO CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS HERE WHO PURSUE
THEIR DEGREES AND OUR MSW
PROGRAM AND GO ON TO WORK IN A
VAST ARRAY OF CAREERS, SOME
OF WHICH YOU'VE JUST HEARD
ABOUT FROM THE CONTENT OF THE
PROCLAMATION ITSELF AND WHAT
SOCIAL WORKERS HAVE IN COMMON
EVEN THOUGH THEY DO SUCH A WIDE
VARIETY OF THINGS IS THAT THEY
HAD A SINGULAR COMMITMENT TO
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE AND
ALL THAT THEY DO AND SKILLS AND
USING THE HUMAN TECHNOLOGY
OF RELATIONSHIP AND COMMUNITY
BUILDING TO MAKE CHANGE THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SOCIAL
WORKERS CHOSE AS ITS THEME FOR
SOCIAL WORK MONTH THIS YEAR
EMPOWERING SOCIAL WORKERS AND
WE'RE USING THAT OPPORTUNITY TO
SHINE A LIGHT ON A PROBLEM THAT
THREATENS THE GROWTH OF THE
SOCIAL WORK WORKFORCE WHICH IS
THE NEED FOR BETTER
COMPENSATION FOR SOCIAL WORK
PROFESSIONALS.
SIMPLY PUT, SOCIAL WORKERS ARE
WOEFULLY UNDERPAID DESPITE THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE WORK THAT
THEY DO EVERY DAY FOR THE
BETTERMENT OF THOSE MOST
DISADVANTAGED IN OUR SOCIETY.
SO IF WE'RE TO ADDRESS CRITICAL
ISSUES SUCH AS THE SEVERE
NATIONAL SHORTAGE OF BEHAVIORAL
HEALTH PROVIDERS BOTH
GOVERNMENT AND THE PRIVATE
SECTOR NEED TO INVEST IN THE
EDUCATION OF SOCIAL WORK
PROFESSIONALS AND IN
COMPENSATING THE WORK THAT THEY
DO SO THAT SOCIAL WORKERS CAN
TAKE JOBS UPON GRADUATION
ADVANCE WITH REASONABLE
SALARIES AND BECOME LEADERS AND
MANAGERS AS THEY GROW
PROFESSIONALLY.
SO IN PROVIDING THIS
PROCLAMATION, CITY COUNCIL IS
GIVING MUCH NEEDED VISIBILITY
TO THE IMPACT AND VALUE
OF SOCIAL WORKERS AND I WANT TO
THANK YOU ALL ESPECIALLY OUR
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO ARE
THEMSELVES SOCIAL WORKERS,
COUNCIL PERSON GUTSY EDWIN AND
COUNCIL PERSON SONG.
SO AGAIN THANK YOU AND HAPPY
SOCIAL WORK MONTH
.
WELCOME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVED PUBLIC KIND
OF RESERVED TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK ACCOUNTS IN THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
IN PUBLIC AND RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING A CITY
CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OUR REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ALEX
AND ALEX LOWE IS JOINING US.
SO ALEX, GO AHEAD.
OH THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN FROM
ALL THREE.
I WANT YOU TO THANK YOU FOR
BACKING THE RIGHT'S ALTERNATIVE
OPTIONS ON THE TWENTY THREE
PROJECT.
WELL, I IS PROPOSING IS QUITE
SIMPLY NOT ALL AROUND.
IT'S ABOUT TRAFFIC.
IT'S BAD FOR THE PLANET AND
IT'S BAD FOR THE STATE BUDGET.
I HAVE A CONCERN FOR THE FACT
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL SEEMS TO
BE ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY
WHEN IT COMES TO SUPPORTING
THESE KINDS OF PROPOSALS FROM
OTHERS ALL OVER THE PLACE WHEN
IT COMES TO MAKING THESE
CHANGES THEMSELVES.
I'VE SEEN SOME POSITIVE,
INCREDIBLY TIMID STEPS TAKEN
SUCH AS THE PHASING OUT GAS
POWERED LEAF BLOWERS AFTER WHAT
IS QUITE FRANKLY WAY TOO LONG A
TIME PERIOD.
I'VE ALSO SEEN THE CITY COUNCIL
DELAY POSITIVE STEPS FOR YEARS
SUCH AS THE REFUSAL OF A CLEAN
SWEEP STREET SWEEPER
SYMPATHETIC THE ELECTRIC ONES
THAT WERE ON BACK ORDER NEVER
MIND THE FACT THAT A GAS
POWERED STREET SWEEPER KEEP THE
BIKE LANES THAT WOULD LIKELY
HAVE A NET NEGATIVE CARBON IN
AND THEN OF COURSE THE TIMES
AND THE CITY COUNCIL HAS CHOSEN
TO REPEAT DECADES WORTH OF THE
BAD DECISIONS SUCH AS WHEN YOU
DECIDED THAT MUNICIPAL GOLF
COURSES SHOULD CONTINUE TO
POLLUTE OUR AIR WITH GASOLINE.
AS SOMEONE WHO'S PLAYED GOLF
SINCE CHILDHOOD, I MUST SAY THE
EXCUSES TO USE THIS USED TO
DEFEND THIS DECISION OR DIRECT
IT ASIDE MY PERSONAL OPINION
THAT TAKING A GOLF CART FROM
ONE SHOT TO ANOTHER IS KIND
DETRIMENTAL TO THE EXPERIENCE
OF GOLF IS A SPORT.
THE PARKS DEPARTMENT DID NOT
ADEQUATELY EXPLAIN WHY THEY
HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO PLAN FOR
THE SAME ELECTRIC GOLF CARTS
I'VE SEEN IN MUNICIPAL GOLF
COURSES ELSEWHERE FOR OVER
TWENTY YEARS.
WE'RE STILL THAT WAS THE
ABSOLUTE COPOUT I HEARD FROM
ONE OF MY OWN THREE COUNCIL
REPRESENTATIVES THAT BECAUSE
THESE ELECTRIC HUTS ARE RENTED
THEY DON'T HAVE THAT PART
OF THE CITY FLEET AND THEREFORE
OUR CITY'S CLIMATE GOALS DON'T
COUNT IF WE CAN DELAY
PEDESTRIAN BY THIRTY SECONDS AS
WELL AS THE ENVIRONMENTAL
TRAFFIC AND HEALTH BENEFITS
OF HAVING MORE PEOPLE BUT
BIKING BECAUSE A PIECE
OF EQUIPMENT THAT PROVES
ELECTRIC VERSIONS ARE ONLY
RECENTLY CAME TO THE MARKET, IT
IS HARDER TO FIND AND AND NOT
JUST GOING TO GET THE GAS ONES
BUT WE DEFINITELY TELL PEOPLE
FOR A FEW MONTHS SORRY IF YOU
WANT TO PLAY GOLF AT THIS
COURSE YOU'LL HAVE TO DO A OLD
FASHIONED THANK YOU ARE OK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LESCOTT
.
GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY.
I'M NOT HERE TO DEBATE GOLF
CARTS AT ALL.
MY NAME IS LESS CRITES.
I OWNED AND OPERATED A SMALL
LANDSCAPE COMPANY AND SERVICE
TREE FARM SUPERIOR MONTESANO
FOR OVER 40 YEARS.
I'D LIKE TO VOICE MY CONCERN
FOR MY BUSINESS AS WELL AS
LARGE PROPERTY CLIENTS WITHIN
THE CITY LIMITS OF ANN ARBOR.
ONE OF THE PROPERTIES THAT I'M
RESPONSIBLE FOR IS THE
PITTSVILLE VILLAGE CONDOMINIUMS
LOCATED ON THE WASHTENAW US
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR.
THIS PROPERTY IS I'M SURE ONE
OF THE LARGEST SINGLE
PROPERTIES LOCATED WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS CONTAINING OVER
FIFTY FIVE ACRES AND FIVE POINT
FIVE MILES OF CEMENT SIDEWALK
DURING THE WEEKLY OPERATIONS
HERE FOR SAFETY REASONS
SIDEWALKS NEED TO BE CLEARED
OF GRASS DEBRIS WHICH MANY
TIMES CAN BE CHALLENGING EVEN
WITH THE LARGEST COMMERCIAL
GASOLINE POWERED BLOWERS IT
CURRENTLY TAKES.
THREE OF MY CREW MEMBERS ONE
POINT FIVE HOURS TO COMPLETE
THIS OPERATION SOMETIMES LONGER
IF IT'S WET WHERE WE GET THE
RAINSTORM OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT MAY HAPPEN.
LET ME POINT OUT THAT IN THE
ONE POINT FIVE HOURS THAT WE
SERVICE THESE SIDEWALKS, THE
GASOLINE CONSUMPTION TOTAL FOR
ALL OF THIS MACHINERY IS LESS
THAN ONE GALLON OF GASOLINE
WHILE TRANSITIONING TO A
BATTERY POWERED BOARD IS FINE
FOR PROBABLY MUCH SMALLER
PROPERTIES BUSINESSES,
INDIVIDUAL HOMEOWNERS THAT
TECHNOLOGY IS SIMPLY NOT THERE
YET TO MATCH THE CAPABILITY
OF COMMERCIAL BLOWERS.
I DISCOVERED QUITE QUICKLY IN
THE LAST FEW MONTHS WHILE
TESTING SEVERAL LARGE
COMMERCIAL BLOWERS THEY
DEFINITELY DO NOT PERFORM AS
WELL AS THE CURRENT DEVICES.
THEY ARE SIGNIFICANTLY LESS
POWERFUL AND CONTRARY TO HOW
THEY'RE ADVERTISED.
THE COST OF THESE COURSES
COMPARISON DEVICES ARE IN
EXCESS OF OVER TWENTY SEVEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS PER UNIT OR
ROUGHLY FOUR TIMES THE COST
OF WHAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE.
IN ADDITION, THE WEIGHT
OF THESE UNITS DUE TO THEIR
EXTREMELY LARGE BATTERY SIZE
THEY CAN EXCEED THIRTY TWO TO
THIRTY FIVE POUNDS TO BE WORN
ON THE BACKS OF MY EMPLOYEES
WHICH IS TEN POUNDS MORE THAN
OUR CURRENT UNITS.
AS A REFERENCE I'D LIKE TO
POINT OUT THAT WE'RE ALL
CURRENTLY GATHERED RIGHT NOW
IT'S THREE POINT SEVEN MILES
FROM HERE TO THE PITTSFIELD
VILLAGE CONDOMINIUMS THAT'S
LESS THAN ONE POINT FIVE MILES
MORE THAN WE WOULD HAVE TO WALK
TO GET THERE FOR THE TOTAL
INCREASED WORK THAT THESE WOULD
HAVE TO DO.
AND LADIES IN THE SUMMER HEAT
BESIDES THE INTOLERABLE COST
FACTOR AND PERHAPS THE MOST
IMPORTANT FACTOR IS THE RUNTIME
THAT THESE UNITS CAN OPERATE
BETWEEN CHARGING TESTED THREE
TOP COMMERCIAL UNITS THE BEST
YOU CAN BUY, THE MOST
EXPENSIVE.
THEY BASICALLY RUN OUT
OF BATTERY WITHIN 15 TO TWENTY
FIVE MINUTES AT A TIME.
SO THAT CREATES AN INCREDIBLE
CHALLENGE FOR US.
THEY CAN ONLY BE SOLVED BY
FOLLOWING EMPLOYEES AROUND WITH
SOME SORT OF GASOLINE POWERED
UTILITY CART AND SWAPPING
BATTERIES EVERY 15 MINUTES.
CURRENTLY WE WOULD NEED AS MANY
AS 18 BATTERIES.
THANK YOU SWAP.
THANK YOU.
NEXT IS ELLEN JOHNSON
THREE FOR
THREE MINUTES.
HI.
I HAVE MY OWN TIMER AS WELL
HERE.
GREETINGS TO THE MEMBERS OF ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS ELLEN JOHNSON AND I
SERVE AS PRESIDENT OF THE
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE CONDOMINIUM
ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
I'LL BE USING THE TERM VILLAGE
HEREAFTER DESCRIBE OUR CONDUCT
COMMUNITY AND I WANT TO THANK
YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK ON BEHALF OF THE VILLAGE
AND ITS RESIDENTS AND IN
SUPPORT OF WESCOTT'S WHO SPOKE
IMMEDIATELY BEFORE ME.
PERMIT ME TO SAY A FEW WORDS
ABOUT THE VILLAGE.
MY GUESS IS THAT YOU KNOW A BIT
ABOUT IT.
EVERYBODY SEEMS TO KNOW
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE BUT ITS
UNIQUE CHARACTERISTICS MAKE IT
IMPORTANT TO HIGHLIGHT A FEW A
FEW
ELEMENTS.
IT WAS BUILT IN THE MID
NINETEEN FORTIES AND IT'S
COMPOSED OF FOUR HUNDRED AND
TWENTY TWO DWELLINGS IN ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
BUILDINGS.
SPATT OUT OVER SIXTY FOUR ACRES
I KNOW LESS SAID FIFTY FIVE BUT
DIDN'T COUNT THE LAND THAT THE
BUILDINGS SIT ON.
WE HAVE LARGE OPEN AREAS AND
LAWNS AND GARDEN AREAS.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT THE
VILLAGE IS PROBABLY THE LAST
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS OFFERING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS OF ANN ARBOR.
THE OPPOSITION BLEND OF AGES
PROFESSIONALS TO RETIREES, MANY
SINGLE HOUSEHOLDS AND
INDIVIDUALS ON FIXED INCOMES.
IT'S A UNIQUE STATUS THAT
AFFIRMED BY THE CITY.
VARIANCES ARE ALREADY IN PLACE
FOR SNOW REMOVAL AND STORAGE
OF WASTE AND RECYCLING
CONTAINERS.
THE VILLAGE BOARD HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH A LANDSCAPE
CONTRACTOR LESS TO UNDERSTAND
THE NEW ORDINANCE BANNING THE
USE OF GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS
AND TO ASSESS THE IMPACTS ON
OUR COMMUNITY.
PLEASE KNOW THE VILLAGE, THE
BOARD AND THE VILLAGE COMMUNITY
ARE VERY MUCH IN SYNC WITH THE
CITY COUNCIL AND A TO ZERO
GOALS OF REDUCING RESILIENCE ON
FOSSIL FUELS, REDUCING
POLLUTION AND NOISE AND
PROMOTING RESIDENT HEALTH WHEN
YOU KNOW IT I GET A CALL RIGHT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS.
WE SUPPORT THE CONCEPT OF EVER
ELIMINATING GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS.
HOWEVER THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE ORDINANCE AS WRITTEN
WILL HAVE SIGNIFIED AND SURELY
UNINTENDED NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON
THE VILLAGE RESIDENTS MAJOR
IMPACTS, NEGATIVE IMPACTS LESS
TALKED ABOUT THEM ARE COST
EFFICIENCY AND PARADOXICALLY
THE INCREASED GAS CONSUMPTION
LESS TALKED ABOUT THE
TECHNOLOGY ISSUE.
SO I WON'T GO ON TO THAT TALK
ABOUT THAT EXCEPT FOR THE FACT
THAT THE COST OF COMPLYING WITH
THE ORDINANCE WILL REQUIRE A
SIGNIFICANT OUTLAY ON HIS
BEHALF AND WILL HAVE A HUGE
FINANCIAL IMPACT ON THE COST
OF SERVICES TO THE VILLAGE AND
THAT WOULD BE PASSED ON TO THE
OWNERS AND THE RESIDENTS.
I'M GOING TO GO RIGHT TO THE
END.
I GOT TWENTY EIGHT SECONDS HERE
I REQUEST TO THE COUNCIL IS TO
IS TO THINK ABOUT AND HOPEFULLY
ISSUE A VARIANCE FOR PITTSFIELD
VILLAGE AND OTHER LARGE CONDO
COMPLEXES WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS TO ALLOW THE USE OF GAS
POWER AND LEAF BLOWERS UNTIL
SUCH TIME AS IT BECOMES
ECONOMICALLY FEASIBLE TO MAKE
THE SWITCH TO ELECTRIC
EQUIPMENT DELAYED TIMELINE FOR
IMPLEMENTATION IS AN ALTERNATE
OPTION.
WE'D ALSO LIKE TO HAVE SOME
FINANCIAL SUPPORT IN PLACE FOR
THE PURCHASE OF THE EQUIPMENT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SUMANT
.
THANK YOU.
SOME OF THIS MIGHT SOUND LIKE
DEJA.
IT IS NOT.
IT IS JUST A GROUP OF CITIZENS
HERE TO ADVANCE SOME OF THE
SAME ISSUES.
I'M SIMONE CAMPBELL TAYLOR.
I REPRESENT THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS AT NEWPORT WEST
CONDOMINIUMS REGARDING THE
RECENTLY PASSED COUNCIL
DECISION ON GLASSBLOWERS OUR
BOARD IS MAKING A FORMAL
REQUEST FOR COUNCIL TO PROVIDE
A WAIVER FOR THE USE
OF GLASSBLOWERS FOR LARGE
PROPERTIES LIKE OURS.
WE ARE NOT ALONE IN THIS
REQUEST AS YOU HEARD AS OTHER
COUNTRIES, ASSOCIATIONS AND
PROVIDERS HAVE COME FORWARD IN
AN EFFORT TO CONTINUE TO
SUPPORT GREEN, ANN ARBOR
COUNCIL MAY HAVE COMINGLED THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCIES TO BE
ACHIEVED WITH ELECTRIC BLOWERS
AT SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCES
WITH THOSE OF LARGE
INTENTIONALLY DESIGNED
COMMUNITIES WHERE THE
COMPLEXITIES OF GROUNDS
MAINTENANCE MAY RESULT IN MUCH
SMALLER IF ANY NET GAIN ON THE
ENERGY FRONT, NEWPORT RUST IS A
COMPLEX OF TWENTY FIVE ACRES IN
ONE HUNDRED AND THREE HOMES.
GASPERS ARE USED ONCE A WEEK
FOR ABOUT 90 MINUTES AS LESS
INDICATED GAS USE IS WELL LESS
THAN ONE GALLON PER WEEK.
LARGE SCALE COMMERCIAL QUALITY
ELECTRIC BLOWERS ARE COSTLY AND
MORE CRITICALLY THEY CURRENTLY
LACK THE CAPACITY FOR A FULL
DAY'S WORK.
SERVICE PROVIDERS WILL BE
DIRECTLY AFFECTED SPENDING
ADDITIONAL TIME EXCHANGING
BATTERIES VIA GAS VEHICLES
DRIVEN BETWEEN LOCATIONS TO
COMPLETE THEIR WORK WHILE
ENDURING BATTERY PACKS WEIGHING
MORE THAN A GAS BLOWER.
THIS WILL LIKELY INCREASE NOT
DECREASE GAS USE.
IN SHORT, THE COUNCIL'S
ENVIRONMENTALLY INFORMED
INTENTION MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM
THE ACTUAL NEGATIVE UNINTENDED
IMPACT AT LARGE COMPLEXES SUCH
AS OURS.
NEWPORT WEST IS A FORWARD
THINKING COMMUNITY WITH REGARD
TO ENERGY ISSUES WE'VE
INSTALLED SOLAR ENERGY PANELS
UTILIZED MIXED ENERGY SOURCES
FOR OUR CLUBHOUSE, ARE CREATING
POLICIES FOR FACILITATING
VEHICLES AND WE'VE PURCHASED AN
ELECTRIC CAR TO SUPPORT
LANDSCAPE NEEDS.
WE VALUE AND PURSUE TRUE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND WE BELIEVE YOU
DO TOO.
WE TRUST YOU WILL BE COMPELLED
BY THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
SINGLE FAMILY YARDS AND LARGE
COMPLEXES AND SYMPATHETIC TO
THE UNIQUE NEEDS OF LARGE
COMPLEXES SUCH AS OURS THAT
REQUIRE YOUR RECONSIDERATION.
WE HOPE YOU'LL CONSIDER
EXEMPTING LARGE RESIDENTIAL
COMPLEXES FROM THE GAS BLOWER
BAN UNTIL TECHNOLOGY FOR
COMMERCIAL CAPACITY BATTERY
POWERED BLOWERS CATCHES UP TO
THE REQUIREMENT OF PROPERTIES
LIKE OURS.
SHORT OF THAT WE REQUEST THAT
YOU ALLOW A THREE YEAR PHASE IN
TO ALL ELECTRIC BLOWERS FOR ALL
SEASON USE FOR SITES OF OUR
SIZE.
I THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOHN DUFORT
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN GODFREY AND I'M
A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR AND I
WOULD LIKE TO TALK WITH YOU
ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
STEERING COMMITTEE AT ITS
MEETING LAST NOVEMBER 14.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
APPOINTED SIXTEEN MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY TO THIS
COMMITTEE WHICH IS INTENDED TO
SUPPORT THE WORK OF ENGAGEMENT
DEVELOPMENT AND COMPLETION
OF AN ARBOR'S NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AS DESCRIBED BY PLANNING
DIRECTOR BRETT LEONARD.
THE STEERING COMMITTEE ADVISES
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND ITS
WORK AS AUTHOR OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND SERVES
AS A CONDUIT TO ENSURE THAT
VOICES OF RESIDENTS ARE HEARD
IN ITS PREPARATION.
AS YOU KNOW BY STATE STATUTE,
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CONSIDERS ALL ASPECTS OF LAND
USE AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND
INCLUDES RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
POLICIES TO GUIDE THE
PHYSICALITY DEVELOPMENT OF THE
CITY FOR THE NEXT 20 YEARS AND
MORE.
WHAT COULD BE MORE IMPORTANT
THAN ASSURING THAT ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS ARE FULLY INFORMED
AND ENGAGED IN THIS IMPORTANT
PLANNING AS THIS IMPORTANT
PLANNING PROCEEDS?
INDEED, THIS IS ONE OF THE
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
STEERING COMMITTEE.
THE COMMITTEES CHARGE IS TO
GATHER A BROAD VIEW OF PUBLIC
VIEWS ON FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND
LAND USE ENTERPRISE PURITIES
RECOMMENDATIONS BASED ON WHAT
IS LEARNED.
IT IS TO ENSURE THAT DIVERSE
VOICES AND VIEWS THAT REPRESENT
THE NEIGHBOR COMMUNITY ARE
HEARD BY DOING SO THE COMMITTEE
WILL BE ABLE TO GUIDE THE
COMMISSION AND THE COUNCIL TO
SUCCESS IN SETTING THE
COMMITTEE COMMUNITY'S LONG
RANGE ASPIRATIONS AND GOALS FOR
THE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
OF THE CITY.
THE STEERING COMMITTEE WILL
MEET FIVE TO SEVEN TIMES THIS
YEAR BUT ASTONISHINGLY THESE
MEETINGS TAKE PLACE BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS.
NOR ARE THEY RECORDED FOR
PUBLIC VIEWING.
SHUTTING THE DOOR BELIES THE
FUNDAMENTAL VALUES
OF TRANSPARENCY AND EXCLUSIVITY
WHICH ARE OF THE HIGHEST VALUES
FOR AN UNDERTAKING THAT WILL
SHAPE THE FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR.
OTHER COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES ARE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
THEIR MEETINGS ARE RECORDED AND
MINUTES PUBLISHED BY THE LACK
OF OPENNESS HERE TRANSPARENCY,
SAFEGUARDS, PARTICIPATORY
DEMOCRACY AS AN AFFIRMATION
OF YOUR COMMITMENT TO OPENNESS
,I ASK THAT THE COUNCIL NOT
SHUT THE DOOR TO THE PUBLIC AND
DIRECT THAT MEETINGS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN STEERING
COMMITTEE BE OPEN AND VIDEO
RECORDED DOING SO WILL UPHOLD
THE RIGHT OF RESIDENCE TO BE
FULLY INFORMED ABOUT THE WORK
OF THIS COMMITTEE THAT IS
PLAYING AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN
DRAFTING THE ROADMAP FOR THE
FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AARON
COOPER
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS AARON COOPER AND I'M
THE NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR
AVALON HOUSING A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT ME AS MY EXPERIENCE HAS
BEEN ABOUT SIXTEEN YEARS IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ACROSS THE
MIDWEST MORE SO IN PUBLIC
HOUSING WORKED ALONGSIDE MISS
HALL OVER HERE FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS.
AND SO I COME TO YOU FROM THE
INKSTER HOUSING COMMISSION IN
INKSTER, MICHIGAN AS OUR CEO
AND BEFORE THAT I WORKED IN
CLEVELAND IN TOLEDO IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO I JUST WANTED TO COME BEFORE
YOU TODAY JUST TO INTRODUCE
MYSELF BUT ALSO THANK YOU FOR
EVERYTHING YOU ALL HAVE DONE.
THIS COMMUNITY HAS BEEN GREAT.
I'M ONLY BEEN HERE FOR A FEW
WEEKS BUT I'VE LEARNED A LOT IN
A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME AND JUST
TO SUPPORT FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, THE WHOLE HOUSING
ECOSYSTEM IS REALLY EVIDENT
HERE IN WASHTENAW COUNTY.
SO THANK YOU FOR ALL YOU'VE
DONE AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONTINUED SUPPORT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SUSAN
HANSEN AND
HI I AM SUSAN HANSEN
.
I LIVE AT THREE FOUR SIX FIVE
RICHARD IN PITTSFIELD WHICH I'M
A PART OF THE PITTSVILLE
VILLAGE SUSTAINABILITYROUP, A
GROUP THAT WORKS TO BUILD
SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT THE
WHOLE STRUCTURE OF OUR CONDO
COMMUNITY.
WHEN I AND OTHERS HEARD ABOUT
THE ORDINANCE THAT YOU PASSED,
WE WERE ABSOLUTELY THRILLED AND
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE ENERGY
THAT YOU PUT INTO THAT.
AND WHEN IT CAME TO OUR
ATTENTION THAT THEREE A LOT
OF PROBLEMS WITH IMPLEMENTING
THAT ORDINANCE, LESS HAS FILLED
IN A LOT.
I REALLY HE REALLY
WENT INTO IT
TO TRY TO MAKE IT WORK AND I'M
NOT GOING TO GO INTO I HAVE A
LOT OF THINGS ABOUT THERE.
I WON'T GO INTO THOSE RIGHT NOW
BUT MY MAJOR CONCERN IS THAT
WHEN WE ARE TRYING TO IN TRYING
TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEM WE
ACTUALLY ARE MAKING IT WORSE IN
OUR IN THE VILLAGE PROBABLY
GOING TO INCREASE HOW MUCH
FOSSIL FUELS WE'RE USING AND
THIS IS OFTEN A PROBLEM.
WE IT WE HAVE TO TAKE OUR TIME
TO LOOK AT ACTUAL EFFECTS WHEN
YOU'RE IMPLEMENTING AND SO RUSS
AND HIS COMPANY HAVE BEEN
WORKING PITTSFIELD VILLAGE FOR
A LONG TIME.
HE IS A VERY HARD WORKING,
INTELLIGENT MAN WITH A LOT
OF INTEGRITY.
SO I BELIEVE IN HIS THE RESULTS
OF WHAT HE'S BEEN DOING AND I
FEEL THAT IF HE IS HAVING ALL
THIS DIFFICULTY WITH THE
IMPLEMENTATION WE AS A CITY
NEEDS TO LISTEN TO HIM AND TAKE
HIM SERIOUSLY.
HE WILL THAT IS WE'VE HEARD
ALREADY HE WILL NOT BE ALONE IN
HAVING THESE DIFFICULTIES.
I STILL TOTALLY BELIEVE IN THE
MAIN IDEA OF THE ORDINANCE BUT
I THINK THE ORDINANCE NEEDS TO
BE REVISITED AND REVISED TO
MAKE IT WORKABLE.
I SUGGEST THAT THERE BE
CONVERSATIONS WITH LANDSCAPE
CONTRACTORS WHO WHO WOULD BE
INVOLVED IN THIS BECAUSE THEY
HAVE VALUABLE HANDS ON
KNOWLEDGE AND I WOULD SUGGEST
THAT A TWO ZERO IS IN A VERY
GOOD POSITION TO GIVE US
ACCURATE SUSTAINABILITY
INFORMATION.
IT WOULD BE MY HOPE THAT
TOGETHER THEY COULD PROVIDE
WORKABLE SOLUTIONS AND
TIMELINES THAT WOULD GIVE US
THE RESULTS THAT YOU WERE
AIMING FOR WHEN YOU WHEN YOU
PASSED THIS ORDINANCE.
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO MY
SUGGESTIONS AND THANK YOU FOR
MOVING OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
FORWARD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SORT OF A
FUNNY HELLO ANN ARBOR.
FOR TWENTY TWO YEARS I HAVE
COME HERE AND DEMANDED THAT NO
CITY COUNCIL PASSES A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL IN MOST OF THOSE
YEARS THERE WAS NOT A GENOCIDE.
IT WAS A SIMILAR GENOCIDE
HAPPENING IN GAZA AND IN THE
WEST BANK BY ISRAEL FOR ALL
OF THOSE YEARS THIS GENOCIDE
WHICH YOU NOW SEE IN YOUR
EVERYDAY LIFE HAPPENING WAS
HAPPENING AND I WAS HERE ASKING
CITY COUNCIL TO PASS A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL SINCE FIVE MONTHS AGO
AND IT'S NOW ALMOST FIVE AND A
HALF MONTHS ISRAEL HAS BEEN
SLAUGHTERING PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
AND HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS AND
AGAIN WE ARE HERE WITH A LOT
OF PEOPLE FROM THE COMMUNITY
ASKING THIS CITY COUNCIL TO CUT
OFF MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
EXCEPT EVERY TIME ANYONE BRINGS
UP THE ISSUE OF CUTTING OFF
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL, MEMBERS
OF THE CITY COUNCIL
PARTICULARLY MISS AISHA, THE
EDWYN SCHOOL ANTI-SEMITIC THEM.
THIS IS A TRICK OF ZIONIST
EVERY TIME ANYONE SAYS HOLD
ACCOUNTABLE, CUT OFF THE MONEY
TO THEM BECAUSE THEY ARE
MURDERING PEOPLE THOSE WHOM
ANTI-SEMITISM WELL, I TELL YOU
MOST AMERICANS CUTTING OFF
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
AMERICAN SENATORS ARE SAYING
CUT OFF MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
IS GAZA EDWYN AND SOME WHO ARE
SOCIAL WORKERS INCLINED TO
SUPPORT HUMAN WELL-BEING.
IF THAT IS WHAT I SHOULD BE
SPENT DOING THAT SAYS TO THE
APARTHEID GENOCIDAL STATE
OF ISRAEL, MY QUESTION IS WHY
DON'T THEY IT BUT I HAVE TO
COME HERE AGAIN AND AGAIN
ASKING FOR CUTTING OFF MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL WHEN YOU SHOULD
BE SPEARHEADING IT.
YES, IT'S CUT OFF MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE YOU INSULTED
ME MULTIPLE TIMES BEFORE.
I HAVE NO YOU ARE PAYING VOTERS
VOTERS IN PALESTINE TEACHING
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN SCIENCE,
MATH AND ART.
IS THIS GAZA WHEN I WAS IN
PALESTINE ORGANIZING EXHIBITS
OF PALESTINIAN STUDENT
SCIENCEWORKS, AN ARTWORK IS
ALLUM.
IT'S BECAUSE OF PEOPLE LIKE ME
THAT ALMOST TWO PERCENT
OF PALESTINIANS ARE LITERATE
AND IT'S BECAUSE LIKE YOU GET
INTO A SLAUGHTERHOUSE DOMINATED
MILITARY, IT IS WRONG TO DO IT.
I'M IS EXPIRED.
THANK YOU.
IS BOWAN CREBER
SO SO I WILL
PROVIDE FOR ONE THOUGH I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU READ IT IF YOU HAD
READ THE COMMENT BUT IN THE
LARGER COUNTRY YOU WOULD
UNDERSTAND MUCH MORE DEEPLY
THAT IN GAZA IS ABOUT AND WHY
MILITARY AID AND AID TO THAT
WAR AT ALL SHOULD BE STOPPED.
THE QUESTION I'M RAISING HERE
IS WHAT THAT PAPER WAS ABOUT
THE COMMONS AND I ALSO SENT YOU
THE PAPER BY MICHELLE ALEXANDER
LOOKING AT THE SITUATION
THERE'S SOMETHING SOMETHING IN
THE AIR AND THAT'S WHAT I THINK
I HOPE WE CAN TOUCH ON TOWARD
COOPERATION RATHER THAN
DOMINATION.
MR GODFREY SPOKE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GROUP IN
CLOSED.
THAT'S REALLY WHAT THE PROBLEM
IS IS THIS WHOLE IDEA OF THE
COMMONS AND PLANNING IS QUITE
ENCLOSED.
THERE WAS NOTHING IN THIS THREE
DAY COUNCIL ASIAN THAT WE HAD
OVER AT THE LIBRARY THAT
RECOGNIZED AS THE COMMONS
EXISTED.
IT WASN'T ON THE AGENDA.
IT WASN'T ON THE MAP.
IT WASN'T ON ANY OF THE
PROGRAM.
THE DATA IS JUST HERE HAS
REFUSED TO RECOGNIZE THE
COMMONS AS A PUBLIC VOTE
THEY'VE NOT HAD IN FIVE YEARS
AND FOUR MONTHS OF MEETINGS,
ONE CONVERSATION.
WHAT KIND OF DEMOCRACY IS THAT
?
THE LIBRARY IS NOT HAD ONE
CONVERSATION ON WHAT THEIR
CHEEK TO CHEEK WITH ON PUBLIC
LAND.
WE REALLY NEED TO SEE HOW
PEOPLE CAN LOOK AT THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY IN OUR
BICENTENNIAL TO BRING THESE
IDEAS TOGETHER OF WHAT COULD BE
A FLOURISHING BEAUTIFUL CENTER
OF THE CITY, A HEART OF A CITY
THAT'S WITH THIS WHOLE IDEA IS
ABOUT THAT FOR SOME REASON THIS
COUNCIL IS COLLABORATING AND
NOT HAVING DISCUSSED AND THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR WHOSE JOB IT
IS TO BRING ALL THE PARTNERS IN
THIS TOGETHER IS NOT EVER DONE
THAT IT'S LIKE WE NEVER VOTED
OR IT'S LIKE WHAT I MIGHT HAVE
SAID BEFORE IN THE SENSE BUT
THERE'S SOMETHING TO IT
TOTALITARIAN DEMOCRACY VOTE FOR
WHAT YOU LIKE BUT THE
BUREAUCRACY IS IN PLACE AND WE
DON'T RECOGNIZE THE COMMONS IS
A STRONG IDEA ALL OVER THE
WORLD AND DID WIN THE NOBEL
PRIZE IN ECONOMICS IS THE BEST
WAY TO ORGANIZE COMMONLY POOL
RESOURCES.
HOW COME YOU IGNORE WELL ANYHOW
IT WILL FLOURISH ON PEACE DAY
ON EARTH DAY COMING UP ON THE
21ST OF APRIL IS SUNDAY.
WE'LL HAVE IN PLACE A PROGRAM
IN A PARK AND LIKEWISE WORTHY
OF OUR BIRTHDAY ON SATURDAY,
MAY 25TH.
THIS IS A CHANCE TO LOOK BEYOND
DOMINATION TOWARD KLAPER.
THANK YOU ON THE AIR I HOPE YOU
GUYS WILL GET THE SCENT OF IT.
THANK YOU TO OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS BLAINE COLEMAN FOR OVER
TWENTY YEARS WE HAVE DEMANDED A
CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL WHEN WE
DEMAND THAT RESOLUTION.
COUNCIL MEMBER AISHA DORSEY
EDWIN OVER HERE SHOOT SIT DOWN
WITH UGLY ACCUSATIONS
OF ANTI-SEMITISM.
THIS BUYS ISRAEL EVEN MORE TIME
TO MASSACRE EVEN MORE
PALESTINIANS.
THEIR BLOOD IS ON HIS HANDS TOO
.
I DON'T GET IT.
THIS IS WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
I SHOULD BE INTRODUCING THE
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL NOT SHOOTING IT DOWN
.
ANYONE WHO HELPS ISRAEL COMMIT
THIS GENOCIDE WILL LIVE IN
SHAME AND THEN BURN IN.
I HAVE A LONG LIFE OF SHAME I
HAD OF HER LOSS.
SHE CHANGES REALLY FAST AND
LISTENS TO THE COMMUNITY.
DO YOU REMEMBER HOW POWERFUL
APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA USED TO
LOOK?
WELL, IT'S DEAD NOW DEAD AND
BURIED
AND NEVER COMING BACK
AFTER THIS GENOCIDE.
YOU KNOW THE APARTHEID STATE
OF ISRAEL IS GOING THE SAME WAY
ISRAEL IS HATED FOR THE
HOLOCAUST THAT IT'S COMMITTING
AGAINST THE INNOCENT
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND THAT'S
WHY ISRAEL CANNOT LAST.
AISHA BIRMA WHEN TRAVIS CHRIS
DON'T USE YOUR OFFICE TO BUY
TIME FOR THE DOOMED APARTHEID
STATE OF ISRAEL.
GO ON TO BE ASSASSINS FOR
ISRAEL, APPROVE THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
BEFORE ISRAEL MURDERS ANOTHER
FORTY THOUSAND PALESTINIANS.
YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND THIS
RESOLUTION IS NOW MAINSTREAM
PUBLIC OPINION IN THE UNITED
STATES AND HIGHER COUNCIL
MEMBER JANAYA IS RUNNING AWAY
FROM THE ROOM BECAUSE HE TOOK
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
CHAUMONT THE MINNEAPOLIS ST.
PAUL AND RICHMOND CITY COUNCIL
HAVE ALREADY APPROVED
RESOLUTIONS AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
GET WITH ANAKA CITY COUNCIL.
ISRAEL IS SWIRLING DOWN A
TOILET BOWL OF HISTORY.
DON'T GO DOWN WITH THAT SHIP.
APPROVE THE RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL AND
GAZA.
EDWIN STOP ACTING LIKE AN
ABJECT DOG BEFORE THE APARTHEID
STATE OF ISRAEL STOP IN
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL MODISH.
THANK YOU, MAYOR TAYLOR.
I WANT TO START BY RECOGNIZING
ONCE AGAIN THE CREATIVE AND
DEDICATED EFFORTS THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZZAWI GHAZI EDWYN PUT
INTO DEVELOPING THE RESOLUTION
AND THAT THIS BODY DID PASS
REGARDING THE CONFLICT BETWEEN
ISRAEL, HAMAS COUNCIL MEMBER
GAZA.
EVERYONE DOES NOT DESERVE THE
DISRESPECT SHE IS RECEIVING IN
THIS ROOM.
I WISH IT WOULD STOP BUT
UNFORTUNATELY IT IS PROTECTED
SPEECH.
BUT YOU HAVE MY GRATITUDE AND
MY SUPPORT LAST WEDNESDAY
EVENING I ATTENDED ONE OF THE
OPEN PUBLIC DOWNTOWN PLANNING
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AT
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
.
THIS IS ONE OF THE MANY
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SHARE THEIR
PRIORITIES FOR LAND USE IN ANN
ARBOR.
THESE ENGAGEMENT EVENTS ARE
GOING ON ACROSS THE CITY AND
THEY ARE HELD VIA VARIOUS
MEDIUMS.
THERE HAS BEEN AN ONLINE SURVEY
THIS WAS AN IN-PERSON
INFORMATION SESSION AND THEN
PEOPLE COULD PUT TONS OF POSTS
ON ALL KINDS OF DIAGRAMS AND
MAPS THAT THAT ARE JUST AN
INCREDIBLE VISION OF WHAT WE
MIGHT DO WITH BIKE LANES AND
MANY OTHER THINGS.
THIS PUBLIC SESSION WAS
STANDING ROOM ONLY.
IT WAS ATTENDED BY RESIDENTS
OF ALL AGES BUT THERE WAS A
NOTABLE PRESENCE OF PEOPLE IN
THEIR TWENTIES AND 20S AND 30S
AND THERE WAS ONE ADORABLE BABY
WHO WAS THOROUGHLY CHARMED BY
OUR OWN RAYMOND HESSE.
I WOULD FINALLY LIKE TO SAY
THAT ON APRIL 24TH AT SIX P.M.
AT THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY, COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AND I WILL HAVE OUR
NEXT QUARTERLY COFFEE HOUR.
THAT IS APRIL TWENTY FOURTH AT
SIX P.M. SO MARK YOUR
CALENDARS.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL.
THANK YOU.
I JUST HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
I WANTED TO THANK.
I CALL CUSTOMER RUDISHA
SENTIMENTS AND THANK THE DDA
FOR THE EXCELLENT WORK THAT
THEY'VE DONE IN THE VISIONING
AND COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
SESSIONS.
I KNOW THAT THAT WAS A BIG LIFT
FOR THEIR TEAM TO DO THAT THREE
NIGHTS IN A ROW AND THANK ALL
THE PEOPLE THAT SHOWED UP.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
REALLY STOOD OUT FOR ME IN
TALKING WITH MISS THOMPSON WAS
THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENCIES WHO
WE DON'T NORMALLY SEE COME TO
THESE TYPES OF EVENTS INCLUDING
STUDENTS, YOUNGER FOLKS JUST
HEARING HOW ACTIVE AND ENGAGED
THAT THEY WERE IN THAT PROCESS
HAS BEEN REALLY HEARTENING.
THE MARCH IS IN ADDITION TO
BEING SOCIAL WORKER MONTH IS
ALSO YOUTH OUR MONTH HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AND SO IF YOU ARE
DOWNTOWN ON MAIN STREET, THE
MAIN STREET ASSOCIATION IS
HOSTING THAT MONTH.
THERE'S INSTALLATIONS
OF CHILDREN'S ARTWORK
THROUGHOUT VARIOUS LOCATIONS
DOWNTOWN.
THESE ARE ALL IN OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOL STUDENTS WHO HAVE
CREATED CREATED THEIR LITTLE
HEARTS OUT.
AND SO IF YOU HAVE A CHANCE TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT, PLEASE DO.
IT'S IT'S REALLY SWEET AND I
THINK SOMETHING THAT THE KIDS
LOVE SEEING TO HAVE THEIR
ARTWORK DISPLAYED IN PUBLIC AND
I WANTED TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO COUNCIL MEMBER
CASSIE EDWYN AS WELL AND TO
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS WHO DID
AN EXCELLENT BRINGING SOMETHING
FORWARD TO THE TABLE THAT I
BELIEVE WAS WHAT FOLKS IN LARGE
PART WHO CAME HERE ASKED US TO
DO.
AND I KNOW THAT THAT WAS HARD
WORK AND I KNOW THAT IT'S
THANKLESS WORK.
AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT
IT'S IT'S REALLY DIFFICULT TO
SIT HERE WEEK AFTER WEEK AND
LISTEN TO YOU FOLKS WHO PUT OUT
QUITE CANDIDLY REALLY SEXIST
IMAGERY AND REALLY MISOGYNISTIC
MESSAGING AROUND THESE GUYS.
EDWYN AND TO ACT LIKE THAT'S OK
TO SIT HERE AND THROW GRENADES
AT WHEN SHE HAS BEEN DISPARAGED
PUBLICLY IN A WAY THAT IS NOT
ONLY HUMILIATING BUT INCREDIBLY
WRONG AND SEXIST.
AND I STAND WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN AND APPRECIATE HER
EFFORTS HERE AT THE TABLE.
THANK YOU.
SO BRINGS I THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER KERNELL JUST TO ADD TO
THAT A LITTLE BIT, YOU KNOW WE
HAVE A COUPLE OF MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHO REGULARLY COME
AND SPEAK TO US AND WE WE COME
TO EXPECT THE RHETORIC AND
HATEFUL THE SPEECH THAT WE
RECEIVE FOR THEM.
BUT IT'S CHALLENGING WHEN
OTHERS COME AND HEAR OUR
LANGUAGE AND HEAR THEM CALL
SOMEBODY A COUNCIL MEMBER, A
MINORITY MEMBER OF OUR COUNCIL
AN ABJECT DOG AND CLAP.
IT'S REALLY DISTURBING.
THAT IS NOT THAT'S NOT HOW WE
CONDUCT BUSINESS.
IT'S NOT HOW IT'S NOT HOW WE
GET NOT CIVILITY.
IT'S DISAPPOINTING CUSTOMER
SONG
.
IT'S I'VE KNOWN ANN ARBOR FOR
TWENTY NINE YEARS FIRST AS AN
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT, THEN AS
A STUDENT COMMUTER AND AS A
WORKER JUGGLING TWO THREE JOBS
AT A TIME THAT I COULD AFFORD
TO LIVE HERE I'VE PROTESTED IN
THE STREETS FOR AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION WITH FELLOW MSW STUDENTS
WORKED IN NONPROFITS, BUILT A
FAMILY AND LEARNED TO FIGHT
WITH AND FOR ANN ARBOR.
WHEN I WAS FIRST ELECTED TO THE
LIBRARY BOARD IN TWENTY SIXTEEN
MY CHILDREN WERE SIX AND ELEVEN
YEARS OLD.
PROS AT PHONE BANKING FOR
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER AND
DOORKNOCKING WITH ME FOR
DEMOCRATIC PARTY CANDIDATES AND
NOW MY OLDEST IS AN ADULT AND
MY YOUNGEST WILL BE IN HIGH
SCHOOL.
THEY ARE AMONG A VERY SMALL
NUMBER OF CHILDREN HERE WHO CAN
RECITE THAT ONLY 24 PERCENT
OF OUR LOCAL TAXES GOES TOWARDS
THE CITY'S OPERATIONS THE PAST
EIGHT YEARS AS A LOCAL ELECTED
HAVE BEEN FORMATIVE FOR OUR
ENTIRE FAMILY AND WE'VE
ORGANIZED FOR CLIMATE ACTION
GUN CONTROL CHILDREN SEPARATED
AT THE BORDER, BALLOT ACCESS
AND REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS.
WE ALSO ORGANIZED A
NEIGHBORHOOD PROTESTING AGAINST
PLANS FOR A BUS MEET AND THEN
SAT NEXT TO NEIGHBORS WHO LIVE
IN LOW INCOME HOUSING AND WE
SHARED OUR DISAPPOINTMENT EACH
TIME THE CITY FORGOES
OPPORTUNITIES TO BECOME MORE
WELCOMING TO NEW NEIGHBORS.
THERE'S SO MUCH WORK TO DO AS
WE RECOVER FROM THE CITY'S
RACIST PAST AND PRESENT AND AS
WE RECOVER FROM THE PANDEMIC.
WELL, IT WOULD BE INTERESTING
TO CONSIDER RUNNING FOR THE
SCHOOL BOARD AS SORT OF TRIPLE
THREAT AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
I'VE DECIDED THAT I CAN BE MORE
EFFECTIVE ORGANIZING
PHILANTHROPY, ORGANIZING
PHILANTHROPY AND INVESTING IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, HOUSING AND
JUSTICE WORK BOTH THE LOCAL AND
STATE LEVEL.
I'M SO GRATEFUL FOR MY
COLLEAGUES AT THIS TABLE FOR
THEIR DEDICATION INFORMED
POLICY ANALYSIS AND STEADFAST
OPTIMISM IN THE CITY'S FUTURE.
I ALSO APPRECIATE THE EXPERTIZE
AND CLARITY THAT CITY
LEADERSHIP HAVE DEMONSTRATED
FROM THE CITY ADMINISTRATORS
OFFICE, CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
AND ALL OF OUR DEPARTMENTS.
IT'S BEEN A PRIVILEGE TO LEARN
FROM YOU ALL THAT SAID, WHILE I
WON'T BE RUNNING FOR REELECTION
THIS FALL, THERE IS A CANDIDATE
IN WAR TWO WILL BE ANNOUNCING
THE RUN THIS WEEK.
THEY HAVE MY UNDIVIDED SUPPORT
GIVEN THEIR PROFESSIONAL AND
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE IN
GOVERNMENT.
A GOOD DESCRIPTION WOULD BE
FROM MY FELLOW WARD TO
COLLEAGUE AND ECONOMISTS WHO
LIKES TO REMIND ME DON'T SLEEP
ON ECONOMISTS'.
I'M CONFIDENT WAR TWO WILL BE
WELL REPRESENTED.
THANK YOU BRIAN.
WELL COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG MAY
FEEL IT HAS BEEN A PRIVILEGE TO
SERVE THE CITY.
I FEEL IT'S BEEN A PRIVILEGE TO
SERVE WITH HER AND I JUST WANT
TO EXPRESS HOW VERY, VERY
GRATEFUL I AM THAT UH SHE SAT
AT THIS TABLE OVER THE YEARS
AND LET HER VOICE TIME AND TIME
AGAIN WITH TOTAL MORE MORAL
CLARITY TO ISSUES BIG AND SMALL
UM ALWAYS SPEAKING OUT FOR
THOSE WHO ARE MARGINALIZED IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND EVEN GOING SO
FAR AS TO DONATE A THOUSAND
DOLLARS EVERY TIME A HOLOCAUST
DENIER SPEAKS HERE AT COUNCIL.
UM, WE WILL MISS YOU AND YEAH.
I'M JUST GOING TO MISS YOU.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA.
THANK YOU.
AND I WANT TO ECHO A LOT
OF WHAT COUNCILMAN BRIAN JUST
SAID AND ADD THAT I AM GRATEFUL
THAT WE STILL HAVE A NUMBER
OF MONTHS LEFT TO WORK WITH YOU
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT AT
AS
SOMEBODY WHO'S BEEN ABLE TO
WORK WITH YOU FOR THE LAST
THREE PLUS YEARS
, THE WORK IS
NEVER FINISHED FOR YOU AND I'M
JUST REALLY GRATEFUL TO HAVE
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY THAT I'VE
HAD TO SERVE WITH YOU AND AS A
COUNCIL MEMBER I MENTIONED YOUR
WILLINGNESS TO ALWAYS CENTER
THE MARGINALIZED AND THOSE WHO
WHOSE VOICES AREN'T ALWAYS AT
THIS TABLE AND SO I AM VERY
GRATEFUL FOR YOU AND LOOK
FORWARD TO THE WORK THAT WE
STILL HAVE TO DO TOGETHER.
BUT I WANT TO JUST THANK YOU
FOR YOUR COMMITMENT TO PUBLIC
SERVICE AND ALL THAT YOU DO FOR
OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
REQUEST CONFIRMATION OF THE
FOLLOWING APPOINTMENT THAT IS
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AT MARCH FOUR OUR SESSION TO
THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES.
SAM EICHENBAUM AT THE MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNSEL BECAUSE
HE HAD ONE SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
KIM IS MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN LAWSON
SECOND BAY COUNCIL NO DISH
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE AN
INTRODUCTION WITH RESPECT TO
SEEI FOR
AIRNORTH HUTCHINSON
WILL BE JOINING US ON ZILL
THE
ENGINEER.
WE HAD SEVERAL QUESTIONS COME
IN REGARDING FOUR SO I'LL GO
THROUGH THOSE AND PROVIDE SOME
ANSWERS TO THEM RIGHT HERE.
FIRST OF ALL THE FIRST QUESTION
THE HILL STREET PORTION OF THIS
PROJECT APPEARS TO BE THE
SMALLER COMPONENT OF THIS TOTAL
PROJECT.
HOW HAVE COSTS ESCALATED TO THE
DEGREE THAT WILL NOW COST MORE
THAN BOTH HILL AND STATE WERE
ORIGINALLY ANTICIPATED COST IT
APPEARS FROM INITIAL BID WAS
WAY UP.
THE FIRST PART OF THAT THAT I
WANTED ADDRESS IS THE WHEN
CONSIDERING THE WATER MAIN
PLACEMENT COMPONENT AS WELL AS
THE ROAD AND TRANSPORTATION
COMPONENT HILL IS ACTUALLY
LARGER OF THE TWO PHASES
OF THIS PROJECT AND THEN IN
TERMS OF THE AMENDMENTS WEIGHT
TRIM WAS NOT ORIGINALLY ASKED
TO PERFORM SERVICES LISTED IN
THIS AMENDMENT OF THE MAJORITY
OF THESE CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
WERE ORIGINALLY SLATED TO BE
PERFORMED BY CITY STAFF.
BUT WE REQUESTED THAT WE TRIM
THIS ADDITIONAL WORK SO THAT
THOSE STAFF RESOURCES COULD BE
REDIRECTED TO THE PROJECTS.
THEREFORE, WHILE THIS AMENDMENT
INCREASES THE VALUE OF THE WAGE
FROM CONTRACT, IT DOES NOT
REPRESENT AN EQUAL INCREASE IN
THE PROJECT COST AS SOME OF THE
INCREASE WILL BE OFFSET BY
REDUCTION IN CITY STAFF COSTS.
THE SECOND QUESTION WE RECEIVE
IS HAVE WE LEARNED ANY LESSONS
INTERNALLY FOLLOWING THIS
PROJECT THAT CAN BE APPLIED TO
FUTURE PROJECTS OR ANY CHANGES
ANTICIPATED IN THIS PROJECT
ALONE?
OUR CONTRACTING SEEM TO BE MORE
THAN ACTUALLY HAVING FULL TIME
STAFF MEMBERS.
SO IN GENERAL UTILIZING
CONSULTANTS DOES COST MORE THAN
THAN THAN DOING THE WORK.
THE CITY STAFF, HOWEVER, AS
STAFFING RESOURCES ARE LIMITED,
THE USE OF CONSULTANTS IS
ALWAYS NECESSARY TO BE ABLE TO
EXECUTE ALL OF THE CAPITAL
PROJECTS THAT WE HAVE ASSIGNED
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT IN ANY
GIVEN YEAR IN PARTICULAR
PROJECTS THAT UTILIZE FEDERAL
AID SUCH AS THE STATE INFILL
PROJECT ARE EXTREMELY TIME
CONSUMING IN ORDER FOR CITY
STAFF TO EXECUTE.
SO HAVING A CONSULTING TEAM TO
EXECUTE THESE TYPES OF PROJECTS
FREES CITY STAFF TO WORK ON
MULTIPLE OTHER PROJECTS INSTEAD
.
AND THEN THE THIRD QUESTION WAS
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROACH TO DISCUSS COST
SHARING SINCE THEY ARE THE
PRIMARY BENEFICIARY AREA.
THE PROJECT WAS SPLIT INTO TWO
YEARS SO AS NOT TO IMPACT
OF LOCAL TRAFFIC.
THIS BENEFIT TO THEM HAS AT THE
EXTREME COST TO OUR BUDGET AND
TO RESPOND TO THAT THE
UNIVERSITY WAS APPROACHED ABOUT
COST SHARING BUT THEY DID NOT
OFFER TO PARTICIPATE
FINANCIALLY IN THE PROJECT.
AND WHILE THE PROJECT WAS
INITIALLY PLANNED TO BE DONE
ENTIRELY TWENTY TWENTY THREE IT
WAS ULTIMATELY SPLIT COULD BE
DONE BETWEEN TWENTY THREE AND
TWENTY FOUR PRIMARILY DUE TO
DELAYS IN PLANNING REVIEW AND
BIDDING ON THE PART OF THAT AS
PART OF THE PROCESS TO USE TO
UTILIZE FEDERAL AID AND
THEREFORE OVERALL TRAFFIC WAS
ACTUALLY NOT A PRIMARY DRIVER
OF THAT DECISION.
SO THAT'S ALL QUESTIONS AND
RESPONSES THAT WE HAVE AND I'LL
BE AROUND TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR DISCUSSION
.
THE CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL
MEMBER CAN I SAY SOMETHING
NICE WITHOUT PULLING SOMETHING
AT THIS MOMENT WE ALL WE ALL
HAVE THREE MINUTES PLUS TWO
MINUTES.
SUPERB.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY HOW
EXCITED I AM TO SEE SCA THREE
WHICH IS THE SESAME NANO GRID
ACQUISITION.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A MOBILE
RESILIENCE HUB THE SIZE OF A
TRAILER.
SO WHILE THIS NANO FOR A GRID
IT'S NOT NANO COMPARED TO A
PHONE DON'T BE CONFUSED THAT IT
REPLACES A DIESEL GENERATOR
WHICH MANY OF US WHO LIVE NEXT
DOOR NOW TO HOMES THAT HAVE
DIESEL GENERATORS CAN IMAGINE
HOW MUCH LOVELIER IT WOULD BE
TO REPLACE ALL THOSE WITH A
SOLAR A MOBILE SOLAR STATION.
SO OUR UNIT HAS FOLD-OUT SOLAR
PANELS.
IT'S PARTNERED WITH A HIGH
POWER DENSITY LITHIUM BATTERY
AND BACKED UP WITH A GREEN
HYDROGEN FUEL CELL.
SO WHEN THE BATTERY RUNS DOWN
THERE IS FUEL AND ALL THAT FUEL
WILL BE GREEN.
THIS WILL ENABLE THE TRAILER TO
PROVIDE MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS,
CONNECTIVITY, ELECTRICITY,
WATER PURIFYING STATION AND YOU
CAN ALSO USE THE INSIDE AS AN
OFFICE OR A MEDICAL FACILITY IF
YOU NEED A POP UP STORE OR
HEALTH CLINIC.
IT IS OBVIOUSLY CLEAN.
IT DOESN'T HAVE
CARBON EMISSIONS BUT IT'S ALSO
NOISELESS AND THIS I READ IS A
BIG ISSUE FOR EMERGENCY
RESPONDERS.
THEY HAVE TO SHOUT OVER
INCREDIBLE DIN OF GAS
GENERATORS AND THEY GET
HEADACHES FROM LOW GRADE
CARBON MONOXIDE.
SO THIS IS JUST BENEFITING
EVERYONE AND SINCE IT'S MOBILE,
THE CITY PLANS TO TAKE IT TO
PLACES LIKE THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
CENTER AND GREEN BAXTER WHICH
ARE NEXT TO RESILIENCE HUBS TO
USE IT FOR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
AND DESIGN WORK AND IT WILL
ALSO ATTEND GREEN FAIR AND
OTHER EVENTS TO HELP CONDUCT
ENGAGEMENT AND EDUCATION
REGARDING RESILIENCE WORK.
SO WELCOME SESAME YANNO
COUNTERMELODIES I'M SORRY I WAS
JUST AFFIRMING HOSANNA DALLAS
MAVERICKS THANK.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK MR.
HUTCHINSON FOR THAT STEPHON
DEDUCTION.
THAT'S HELPFUL TO UNDERSTAND
SOME OF THE ESCALATING COSTS
THERE.
SO I JUST WANT TO APPRECIATE
STAFF FOR THOSE RESPONSES FOR
THE DISCUSSION OF THE CANCER
AGENDA.
FOR MY PART I WOULD JUST LIKE
TO BRIEFLY UPLIFT THE MDC AND
OUR DELEGATION TO WITH RESPECT
TO THE GRANT FOR OUR
BICENTENNIAL PARK SCRATCHPAD
THE AMOUNT OF ONE MILLION
DOLLARS OF COURSE WE ALL KNOW
THAT CENTENNIAL PARK FORMALLY
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK IS ONE
OF THE THE FOCAL POINTS FOR
BICENTENNIAL IMPROVEMENT.
IT'S AN EXCITING PROJECT.
IT STILL REQUIRES FUNDING.
SO FOR ALL OF YOU WITH SEVEN
SEVEN FIGURES WAITING TO BE
SPENT ON SOMETHING THE
BICENTENNIAL PARK WHICH WILL BE
AN INCREDIBLE THING STILL
REQUIRE SOME ASSISTANCE.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH TO TO THE
STATE FOR THIS GRANT AND WE
LOOK FORWARD TO FURTHER FURTHER
ENGAGEMENT DOWNSTREAM FURTHER
DISCUSSION CONSENT AGENDA ON
FABER POSED IT IS APPROVED WITH
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
SEVEN AND EIGHT WE NOW COME TO
A PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARING IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR WILL OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FORTY
TO OPEN SPACE IN PARKLAND
PRESERVATION OF TITLE THREE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY THAT
ARBER IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE OUTLINED
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
MAYOR I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
ONLINE IS HEARING
SENO IN THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH FOUR TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
.
I CAN'T REMEMBER THIS
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED B ONE AN
AUDIENCE AMEND CHAPTER 42 OPEN
SPACE AND PARKLAND PRESERVATION
OF TITLE THREE OF THE CODE THE
CITY THAT ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL
NO MORE DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF B ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN RESPONSE TO SOME OF THE
FEEDBACK RECEIVED FROM COUNCIL
AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
STAFF HAS RECOMMENDED
A COUPLE
OF AMENDMENTS THAT ARE
PRESENTED ON THE AGENDA AS THE
SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AND SO I
WOULD MOVE THE SUBSTITUTE.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR WATSON?
THE SUBSTITUTION FOR ME ON
PAPER?
OH CERTAINLY.
GOODNESS GRACIOUS AND SO
EXCITED VOTE COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA IS STILL ON THE FLOOR.
THANKS.
JUST TO ADDRESS SOME OF THAT
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC STAFF
WENT TO WORK ON MAKING SURE
THAT A COUPLE OF ITEMS THAT I
THINK WERE CRYING SOME
UNINTENDED UNINTENDED ATTENTION
BECAUSE IT IS NOT REFLECTED IN
THE PRACTICE OF THE WORK THAT
WE DO WITH THE GREENBELT.
THERE WAS SOME LANGUAGE IN
THERE THAT WE WORKED TO CLARIFY
.
SO ONE OF THOSE PIECES WAS
MAKING SURE THAT WHEN WHEN LAND
IS PURCHASED WITH THE FUNDS
FROM THE THE MILLION DOLLARS
THAT WHEN WE SELL THOSE BACK AS
PART OF OUR BUY SELL PROGRAM
THAT THOSE FUNDS WILL GO BACK
FOR THAT SAME USE.
AND SO THAT IS NOT GOING TO BE
USED FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
AND THEN THE OTHER MAJOR PIECE
WAS AROUND THE DEVELOPMENT
RIGHTS WE HEARD A LOT ABOUT
THAT THAT THAT IS NOT SOMETHING
AS WE INDICATED AND HEARD FROM
STAFF AT OUR LAST MEETING THAT
IS PRACTICED HERE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
THE CONTRACTS THAT WE ARE
NEGOTIATING ARE ENSURING THAT
THE CONSERVATION EASEMENTS THAT
WE PUT IN PLACE ARE IN
PERPETUITY AND SO THAT THE
LANGUAGE THAT WAS ORIGINALLY
REFLECTED IN THE ORDINANCE WAS
VERY MUCH SIMPLY INTENDED TO
MEET STATE GUIDELINES AND IT IS
NOT A REFLECTION OF THE
PRACTICE THAT WE ACTUALLY DO
HERE, WHICH IS WHEN WE ARE
CONSERVING THIS WHEN WE ARE
PUTTING CONSERVATION EASEMENTS
ON THIS PROPERTY IS TO CONSERVE
THE PROPERTY, TO CONSERVE THIS
AREA FOR GREEN SPACE AND SO
CREDIT TO THE DILIGENT STAFF
THAT WE HAVE WITH OUR
GREENBELT, ME AND ROSIE WHO WHO
DID SOME WORK IN LOOKING AT
SOME OF THE OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES THAT HAVE
SIMILAR PROGRAMS IN PLACE AND
AND UNDERSTANDING THAT WE
ACTUALLY THINK THAT WE MAY MEET
THE CRITERIA OF THE STATE
SIMPLY BY SAYING THAT WE WILL
NOT THERE IS NO PROCESS FOR FOR
REPURCHASING DEVELOPMENT THE
DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS TO THE
PROPERTY AND THAT IN ITSELF IS
EXPRESSING THE PROCESS AND SO
THOSE WERE THE TWO MAJOR
CHANGES IN RESPONSE TO SOME
OF THE FEEDBACK WE RECEIVED AND
SO MUCH CREDIT TO STAFF FOR ALL
OF THEIR DILIGENT WORK ON THIS
.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS A LOT
OF WORK HAS GONE INTO THIS OVER
A VERY LONG PERIOD OF TIME.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
THIS TESTIMONY HOPEFULLY AM I
CORRECT WITH RESPECT TO BEING
UP TONIGHT?
AM I CORRECT THAT WE'RE BACK AT
FIRST READING?
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN.
I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT HOW I
KNOW A LOT OF US LOVE WATCHING
EACH OTHER'S COMMISSION
MEETINGS AND THIS WAS ACTUALLY
DISCUSSED IN THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION WHICH I
WATCHED TO UNDERSTAND THIS
PROCESS AND THIS DISCUSSION AND
THEN I ACTUALLY SENT THE
YOUTUBE LINK OUT TO
CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE WORRIED
ABOUT THIS.
SO I ACTUALLY ASKED FOLKS TO
LOOK AT THE DISCUSSION.
TWENTY SIX MINUTES INTO THE
VIDEO IT ACTUALLY GOES ON UNTIL
ABOUT AN HOUR.
SO I THINK IT REALLY
DEMONSTRATED THE AMOUNT OF WORK
AND THE EFFORT AND CARE THAT
STAFF AND COMMISSIONERS PUT
INTO THIS AND I REALLY
APPRECIATED LEARNING HOW THE
AUDIENCE CHANGES HAVE BEEN IN
DISCUSSION FOR YEARS.
SO THIS IS GOOD WORK TO BRING
ACROSS THE FINISH LINE FROM
WHAT I UNDERSTAND THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRITISH I
JUST WANT TO BRIEFLY NOTE A
FEATURE OF THESE CHANGES THAT
IS PARTICULARLY OF INTEREST TO
ME BECAUSE I'M A LIAISON TO
HURON RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
THESE CHANGES WILL DO IS THAT
THEY WILL EXPAND THE CITY'S
OPPORTUNITY FOR SOURCE WATER
PROTECTION PROJECTS WITHIN THE
HURON RIVER WATERSHED AND
MOSTLY UPSTREAM OF THE CITY BUT
ONLY IN WASHINGTON COUNTY AND
THIS IS REALLY IMPORTANT TO
ENGAGE IN LAND CONSERVATION
DIRECTLY PROTECTS THE CITY'S
WATER QUALITY WHICH AS WE KNOW
THINGS LIKE RUNOFF FROM
AGRICULTURAL USES AND STUFF CAN
HARM WATER QUALITY EROSION CAN
HARM WATER QUALITY SO I KNOW
THAT THIS WAS A PRIORITY FOR
THE WATERSHED COUNCIL AND I'M
VERY EXCITED THAT WE'RE DOING
THIS AND STAFF NOTES IN THE
MEMO THAT THEY WROTE FOR US
THAT THE WATER QUALITY FOCUS
CAN ALSO BE THE GATEWAY TO NEW
FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES FROM THE
EPA WHICH IS GREAT BECAUSE OUR
GREENBELT PROGRAM HAS BEEN
IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE IT
HAS USED OUR MILLION DOLLARS TO
LEVERAGE SO MANY GRANT MONIES.
SO THIS IS JUST MORE MORE
EXCELLENT WORK.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK STAFF
FOR AND BOTH OUR PARK STAFF AND
ALSO LEGAL STAFF FOR GOING BACK
AND PRODUCING THIS ORDINANCE
AMENDMENTS THAT WE THAT THAT WE
ARE MOVING FORWARD TONIGHT.
I THINK THAT THEY HELPED TO
CLARIFY THE ORDINANCE INTENT
AND ALIGN IT WITH OUR CURRENT
PRACTICE.
I YOU KNOW, IT'S I THINK THERE
WAS THERE WERE I KNOW THERE WAS
A LOT RESPONDING TO DIFFERENT
EMAILS AND FROM THE COMMUNITY
AND IT'S REALLY GREAT TO SEE
THAT SORT OF RESPONSIVENESS
COME FROM STAFF AND TO MAKE
SURE THAT THERE'S GREAT
COMFORT WITH THE ORDINANCES
WE'RE MOVING IT FORWARD.
THIS IS SUCH AN INCREDIBLE
PROGRAM.
IT IS IT IS A NATIONAL MODEL.
IT'S SOMETHING WE CAN BE REALLY
PROUD OF IN OUR COUNTY AND I
WANT OUR COMMUNITY TO FEEL
REALLY EXCITED AT EVERY STAGE.
SO IT'S EXCITING TO BEFORE
THESE THESE CHANGES SO THAT WE
CONTINUE TO TO HAVE THIS REALLY
GREAT PROGRAM.
TELL US MORE ABOUT HAVING THIS
ON OUR AGENDA JUST SEEMS LIKE A
GOOD TIME TO REMEMBER WHY WE DO
THIS.
I MEAN WE'VE TALKED ABOUT OPEN
SPACE PARKLAND PRESERVATION BUT
A LOT OF THIS IS ABOUT
PREVENTING SPRAWL WHICH IS VERY
COSTLY BOTH ENVIRONMENTAL AND
FROM AN INFRASTRUCTURE
PERSPECTIVE.
I REMEMBER THIS IS ONE OF THE
FIRST ISSUES I BECAME AWARE
OF LOCALLY AND I WAS REALLY
PROUD THAT I MOVED TO A
COMMUNITY THAT WAS TRYING TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT SPRAWL.
SO I DON'T KNOW.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD TIME TO
REMEMBER THAT WITH THAT COMES
BUILDING DENSITY WHERE IT
BELONGS WITHIN THE CITY AND SO
,YOU KNOW, JUST LET'S BE
CONSISTENT ACROSS THESE
POLICIES AS WE THINK ABOUT OUR
LAND USE PLANNING FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED, IT
IS APPROVED AND WE'LL COME BACK
TO US FOR FOR A SECOND READING
OUT IN THE ORDINARY COURSE DC
ONE RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT THE
RIDE'S PROPOSAL TO EXPLORE
ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS ON THE US
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR PROJECT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CRAIG
SECOND BY COUNCILOR PRIOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER GREIG'S YEAH
THIS IS JUST PRETTY SIMPLE.
WE HEARD THE RIGHT CUMINS MR
CARPENTER COME TO US A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS AGO AND TALK ABOUT
THE WORK THAT THEY'RE DOING TO
TRY TO ENCOURAGE THAT TO
CONSIDER ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS
WHEN THINKING ABOUT THE US
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT SO MOST
OF THE ALTERNATIVES THAT THAT
I'M NOT IS CURRENTLY LOOKING AT
INVOLVE ESSENTIALLY HIGHWAY
WIDENING OR DOING NOTHING.
AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR US AS A
COMMUNITY AND IN LINE WITH OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLANS IS TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE THINKING ABOUT
HOW DO WE MOVE PEOPLE TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
YOU KNOW, GET THEM HERE THROUGH
SUSTAINABLE OPTIONS.
AND SO THE TRANSIT IS ONE
OF THOSE KEY WAYS THAT WE CAN
DO THAT.
THE RIGHT'S PROPOSAL IS IS
GREAT.
IT LOOKS IT ADDING MORE PARKING
RIGHT LOTS AND AND TRANSIT
SERVICE UP OUR COURT ALONG THE
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR SO THAT
WE CAN GET PEOPLE INTO THE
COMMUNITY WHO WANT TO BE HERE
BUT NOT IN A SINGLE OCCUPANCY
VEHICLE.
SO WE ARE A LITTLE BIT BEHIND
IN THIS REGION IN TERMS
OF THINKING I THINK A LITTLE IS
AN UNDERSTATEMENT IN TERMS
OF EXPLORING THOSE TYPES
OF OPTIONS.
SO I AM HOPEFUL WE CAN MOVE
THIS FORWARD TONIGHT.
I SUSPECT THERE'S STRONG
SUPPORT FOR IT BUT ENCOURAGE
THEM THAT TO TO SERIOUSLY DO
THIS ANALYSIS WE'RE WAY BEHIND
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN AND BRIGG'S FOR
BRINGING THIS RESOLUTION TO US
AS SOMEONE WHO FREQUENTLY RIDES
THE BUS AND LIVES NEAR THE US
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR I THINK
IT IS A GREAT IDEA AND ALIGNS
WITH OUR REZONING THE TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
IT COULD HELP REDUCE TRAFFIC
BRINGING US CLOSER TO OUR
VISION ZERO AND
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS SO
EXCITED TO VOTE YES YES FOR
THIS TONIGHT AND I HOPE THERE
IS A WAY TO LET RESIDENTS THAT
THERE'S A WAY THAT RESIDENTS
AND LET ME KNOW THAT THEY ALSO
SUPPORT THE RIGHTS PROPOSAL.
SO THANK YOU COUNCILOR.
SOME I LIKE TO EXPRESS THANKS
AS WELL AND ALSO NOTE THE
ALIGNMENT IN VALUES WITH THE
NEW TRANSIT CAUCUS AND OUR
LEGISLATURE AND THINK
REPRESENTATIVE JASON MORGAN FOR
REALLY PUSHING THAT ALONG.
IT'S I LOVE HOW HE ACTUALLY
LIVES RIGHT BY THIS CORRIDOR
OFF OF TWENTY THREE AND WEST
AND ALSO HE CAN ACTUALLY
OBSERVE THAT PROGRESS AS HE
GOES ALONG AND IT'S GREAT TO
SEE HOW OUR CITY ALIGNS WITH
THE STATE WORK SO I AM EAGER TO
SEE THIS HAPPEN.
THANKS COUNCILOR.
I GUESS JUST TO ADD THAT YOU
KNOW WE REALLY NEED TO THINK
ABOUT THIS ISSUE DIFFERENTLY
AND I BELIEVE I HEARD
REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN MAKE
THESE COMMENTS AT THE STATE BUT
YOU KNOW, WE CAN'T EXACTLY KEEP
OUR ROADS UP THAT WE HAVE.
WHY ON EARTH ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT ADDING MORE LANES WHEN
OTHER OPTIONS THAT CAN MAKE USE
OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE
HAVE IN A WAY THAT'S MORE
ECONOMICALLY VIABLE?
SO EVEN IF YOU JUST YOU'RE NOT
MOVED BY THE SUSTAINABILITY
ARGUMENTS OR THE ACCESSIBILITY
ARGUMENTS WHICH ARE REALLY,
REALLY IMPORTANT I THINK EVEN
JUST FROM A FISCAL
RESPONSIBILITY PERSPECTIVE
LET'S DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED DC RESOLUTION TO
IMPLEMENT ANONYMOUS HIRING
INITIATIVE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON SECONDARY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE LEAVE DC
TO COUNCILOR HARRISON.
OH MY APOLOGIES.
WE HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
MIX
ARTISTS SHOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR
QUESTIONS.
MAYOR LAURA IS JOINING US ON
ZUL.
THANK YOU.
OK
THAT EVENING EVERYONE I SO
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
ANONYMOUS HIRING INITIATIVE AND
I HAVE A HANDFUL OF QUESTIONS
THAT I'LL READ AND GIVE SOME
ANSWERS TO.
SO THE FIRST QUESTION IS PLEASE
EXPLAIN THE TERMINOLOGY AROUND
ANONYMOUS FIRING VERSUS WHAT
THE PROCESS IS CURRENTLY
REFERRED TO AND WHY USING THIS
LANGUAGE IS A BETTER OPTION.
SO ANONYMOUS FIRING TERMINOLOGY
IS REPLACING THE TERM BLIND
HIRING LANGUAGE USAGE MATTERS
AND THE TERMINOLOGY OF BLIND
HIRING CAN BE VIEWED AS ABLEIST
LANGUAGE SO WE LOOKED AT IT AND
SAID WHAT A BETTER WAY TO
APPROACH THIS WITH THE WAY THAT
AN ARBITER IS MOVING FORWARD.
ENGAGING INCLUSIVE IN ALL AREAS
INVOLVES HIRING IS DONE AT THE
CANDIDATES SCREENING STAGE FOR
THE INITIAL REVIEW OF AN
APPLICANT'S SKILLS AND
QUALIFICATIONS RELATED TO THE
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS OF THE
JOB DESCRIPTION.
QUESTION NUMBER TWO IS HOW CAN
A COMBINATION OF ANONYMOUS
HIRING PRACTICES AND PROACTIVE
RECRUITMENT STRATEGIES HELP
CREATE A MORE EQUITABLE HIRING
PROCESS FOR WHEN INDIVIDUALS
WITH JUSTICE INVOLVED
BACKGROUNDS OTHER
UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS
POTENTIALLY FACING BIAS SO
ASSIST IN OBTAINING THAT
INITIAL IMPLICIT OR UNCONSCIOUS
BIAS RELATED TO EVERY MANY
INDIVIDUALS NEED TO PUT A FACE
TO ANY CONVERSATION AROUND
SOMEONE AND THIS BEING TEXT
BASED KIND OF CONVERSATION IF
YOU HAVE LEGAL NAME PRIOR
PREFERRED NAME AND EMAIL
ADDRESS A PREFIX OR A SUFFIX, A
PHOTO, A PHYSICAL ADDRESS OR A
PHONE NUMBER ALL THOSE GIVE
LITTLE CLUES AND ALLOW YOUR
BIASES AS AN INDIVIDUAL BECAUSE
WE ALL HAVE BIASES.
WE JUST NEED TO BE BIAS WHERE
TO COME IN AND KIND OF START
SHAPING YOUR VIEWPOINT BEFORE
YOU HAVE DONE ANY OF THE REVIEW
PROCESS.
FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN I WORK FOR A
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND
AN INDIVIDUAL WOULD APPLY AND
PROVIDE ZIP CODE ON THEIR PLACE
OF RESIDENCE, THERE IS
ABSOLUTELY NO SPECIFIC BIAS
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT
OF CORRECTIONS AROUND THE
PERSON'S SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS
AND THE INDIVIDUAL'S LIKELIHOOD
OF RECIDIVISM IF THEIR RECORDS
SHOW THAT THEY HAD ANY PREVIOUS
JUSTICE INVOLVED BACKGROUND
ISSUES AND THE GENDER BIAS AREA
THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM GENDER SOCIAL NORMS
INDEX REVEALS THAT HALF OF THE
PEOPLE WORLDWIDE STILL BELIEVE
MEN MAKE BETTER POLITICAL
LEADERS THAN WOMEN WITH 40
PERCENT STATING MEN MAKE BETTER
BUSINESS EXECUTIVES REFLEXES
SUCH AS VICE AND SS MRA OR AS I
USE LOOKS REVEAL A GREAT DEAL
OF INFORMATION REGARDING AN
INDIVIDUAL'S GENDER AND MARITAL
STATUS AND UNDERREPRESENTED
GROUPS CAN EXPERIENCE A STICKY
FLOOR WHICH IS ANOTHER
TERMINOLOGY AND DCI AND H.R.
DUE TO THEIR NAMES OR ANY
OF THE OTHER IDENTIFIERS I
TALKED ABOUT A STICKY FLOOR
REFERS TO A BIAS THAT AN
INDIVIDUAL BELONGS IN A
SPECIFIC ROLE TYPICALLY LOWER
RANKING JOBS WHICH MEANS LOWER
PAY AND THEN ALL THE NEGATIVE
RESULTS RELATED TO THOSE
OUTCOMES FOR THE REST OF THEIR
LIVES.
INDIVIDUALS LOOK AT AND SAY
WELL THAT INDIVIDUAL'S NAME
COULD NEVER BE AN EXECUTIVE
LEVEL BECAUSE OF THEIR NAME.
SO THAT STICKY FLOOR COMES INTO
PLAY SOMETIMES AN WAS HIRING
ALSO ALLOWS FOR IT.
IT'S THE INITIAL REVIEW I WANT
TO KEEP STRESSING THAT THE
CANDIDATE SCREENING STAGE OF AN
APPLICANT TO FOCUS SOLELY ON
THE ALIGNMENT OF THE
APPLICANT'S QUALIFICATIONS WITH
THE IDENTIFIED REQUIREMENTS IN
THE JOB DESCRIPTION ITSELF.
QUESTION NUMBER THREE IS WE
CURRENTLY HAVE STRATEGIES TO
IMPROVE OUR NUMBERS OF FEMALE
IDENTIFYING OFFICERS AND
FIREFIGHTERS.
WILL THIS INTERFERE WITH THAT?
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
SO ONE OF THE INITIATIVES THAT
IS NATIONWIDE IN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT IS THE THIRTY BY
THIRTY AND THAT WILL NOT BE
IMPACTED BY THIS IN ANY WAY.
WHAT THIS WILL ACTUALLY DO IS
THROUGH ANONYMIZING THAT
INFORMATION THE CITY WILL BE
ABLE TO SHOW SELECTION PROCESS
FOR CANDIDATES TO BE
INTERVIEWED IS DONE IN AS BIAS
FREE OJ AS POSSIBLE AND WE
CHOOSE TO MOVE FORWARD BASED ON
THEIR QUALIFICATIONS, NOT ON
THEIR IDENTITY.
SO IT'S KIND OF A WAY
OF ANSWERING PEOPLE WHO DON'T
AGREE WITH THEIR BEING IDENTITY
AND ISSUES WITH MARGINALIZED
POPULATION.
THIS IS A VERY WE'RE LOOKING AT
YOUR INFORMATION.
DOES IT MATCH WHAT YOU NEED FOR
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS JOB,
MOVE THAT INDIVIDUAL INTO THE
PILE TO CALL THAT INFORMATION
IS REVEALED THEN YOU KNOW WHO
WE'RE CALLING.
HOW CAN WE CALL THAT PERSON,
GET THEIR PHONE NUMBER, WE GET
THEIR EMAIL?
THAT TYPE OF INFORMATION COMES
OUT SMALL IS HIRING AFTER THE
FIRST REVIEW HAS BEEN DONE.
QUESTION NUMBER FOUR SAYS CAN
YOU GIVE US MORE DETAILED
DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION ABOUT
OUR DEPARTMENT HEADS OR THOSE
IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS SO
PULLING SOME INFORMATION FROM
OUR UCU SYSTEM THAT THE CITY
USES WE LOOKED AT INDIVIDUALS
WERE IDENTIFIED AS SUPERVISORS.
THE TOTAL OF THAT IS ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY.
SO PERCENTAGE WISE WHITE
INDIVIDUALS ARE EIGHTY FOUR
POINT SIX SEVEN PERCENT OF THE
TOTAL SUPERVISORS HISPANIC
LATIN X ARE TWO POINT SIX SEVEN
BLACK AFRICAN AMERICAN ARE
EIGHT PERCENT ASIAN ONE TWENTY
THREE THREE PERCENT AND NOT
STATED OUR THREE POINT THREE
THREE PERCENT.
SO HOW DOES THIS MOVE US
FORWARD IN OUR BEST PRACTICES?
I DO NOT SPEAK FOR H.R. OR THE
H.R. DIRECTOR HERE FOR THIS
ANSWER.
I CERTAINLY WOULDN'T WANT TO
COLLABORATE WITH THE INTERIM
H.R. DIRECTOR BEFORE RESPONDING
FULLY.
THEY'RE CURRENTLY OUT OF THE
OFFICE SO ONCE THEY RETURNED WE
WILL PROVIDE YOU WITH MORE
DETAILED ANSWERS FOR THE DESIGN
OF THE HOUSE.
I CAN SAY THAT ANONYMOUS HIRING
IS ONE OF THE SEQUENCE
PRACTICES IN AN INCLUSIVE
HIRING AND OVERALL WORKPLACE
DIVERSITY PRACTICES THAT IS THE
QUESTIONS THAT I HAVE SO FAR.
THANK YOU CASPERSON.
THANK YOU MAYOR FOR THE
ANONYMOUS HIRING INITIATIVE IS
A DIRECT RESPONSE TO THE
UNDENIABLE NEED FOR A DIVERSE
AND EQUITABLE WORKFORCE.
THIS INITIATIVE IS GROUNDED IN
THE UNDERSTANDING THAT
EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT SHOULD BE
ACCESSIBLE TO ALL FREE FROM THE
BIASES THAT SKEW HIRING
DECISIONS.
IT IS DESIGNED TO TACKLE
IMPLICIT BIAS HEAD ON ENSURING
THAT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
REFLECT THE DIVERSITY OF OUR
COMMUNITY BY LEADING THIS
CHANGE WE CAN HOPEFULLY INSPIRE
LOCAL BUSINESSES AND
ORGANIZATIONS TO FOLLOW SUIT.
RESEARCH SHOWS THAT DIVERSE
TEAMS ARE MORE INNOVATIVE AND
EFFECTIVE.
WE CAN ENHANCE THE CITY'S
OPERATIONS BY EMBRACING A
BROADER RANGE OF TALENTS,
PERSPECTIVES AND EXPERIENCES.
THIS INITIATIVE ALIGNS
PERFECTLY WITH OUR COMMITMENT
TO SOCIAL JUSTICE BY CREATING A
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR ALL JOB
SEEKERS ESPECIALLY WOMEN AND
PEOPLE FROM MARGINALIZED GROUPS
,IT REMOVES POTENTIALLY
BIASING INFORMATION FROM JOB
APPLICATIONS FOCUSING ON SKILLS
AND QUALIFICATIONS AS THE AS
THE BASIS FOR EMPLOYMENT
DECISIONS.
IT ALSO UNDERSCORES A
COMMITMENT TO FAIR CHANCE
HIRING ADDRESSING THE
UNFORTUNATE REALITY THAT NAMES
AND ZIP CODES CAN WRONGLY CAN
BE WRONGLY INTERPRETED THROUGH
THE LENS OF RACIAL BIAS
POTENTIALLY GUESSING TO
CRIMINAL HISTORY AND REMOVING
SUCH INFORMATION WE COMBAT THE
SUBCONSCIOUS BIASES THAT MAY
DISADVANTAGE JUSTICE, IMPACTED
INDIVIDUALS AND OTHERS
AFFIRMING OUR BELIEF IN
EQUITABLE EMPLOYMENT FOR ALL AS
WE IMPLEMENT ANONYMOUS HIRING.
WE HOPE THIS INSPIRES LOCAL
BUSINESSES TO REFINE THEIR
RECRUITMENT INTO REARING,
INTERVIEWING AND ONBOARDING
STRATEGY TO BE INCLUSIVE AND
EQUITABLE.
THE GOAL IS TO ENSURE THAT ALL
APPLICANTS REGARDLESS
OF BACKGROUND HAVE EQUAL ACCESS
TO JOB OPPORTUNITIES.
TO THAT END I JUST WANT TO
THANK LAURA AUTOR FOR AND AND
STAFF FOR THEIR HARD WORK WITH
THIS RESOLUTION.
HER CLAIRE DENHA
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I HAVE ONE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
THAT I WOULD ASK THAT THE CLERK
PLEASE SHARE RIGHT NOW THAT
WOULD ADD AND PHOTOGRAPHS TO
THE LIST OF POTENTIALLY BIASING
INFORMATION IN THE FIRST
RESOLVED CLAUSE.
THIS IS COMING AS AN
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT THERE SEEMS
TO BE A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
ADD THEIR PICTURES TO TO THEIR
TO THEIR RESUME AND SO WANTING
TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT'S
INCLUDED IN THE POTENTIAL LIST
OF ITEMS THAT WOULD BE WOULD BE
REMOVED FROM THAT INITIAL
REVIEW.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR HARRISON FOR ANYBODY
AND THEN I WOULD JUST THANK
YOU.
I WOULD JUST ADD THAT I
APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AND COUNCIL MEMBER ER
FOR BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
MY UNDERSTANDING OF HIRING
PRACTICES AT THE UNIVERSITY IS
THAT THIS IS KIND OF A GROWING
EVERYTHING IS TRENDING IN THIS
DIRECTION.
I DON'T KNOW IT'S UNIVERSAL AT
THIS POINT BUT IN THE HIRING
THAT I'VE PARTICIPATED IN THIS
IS THIS IS STARTING TO BECOME
FAIRLY WELL ESTABLISHED AS AS A
PROCESS TO MAKE SURE THAT
APPLICANTS IN THAT INITIAL
PHASE ARE BEING SCREENED BASED
ON THEIR QUALIFICATIONS, NOT
BASED ON ANY OF THESE
POTENTIALLY BIASING BIASING
PIECES OF INFORMATION.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS A GOOD
STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING BACK
ALSO ABOUT WHAT SOLUTIONS MAY
BE IN PLACE FOR US TO BE ABLE
TO IMPLEMENT THIS AS I
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY
CONVERSATIONS I KNOW THAT IF WE
WERE TO DO ANY TYPE OF SOFTWARE
THAT WOULD DO THIS OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT THAT WE ALSO LIKELY
HAVE TO ADDRESS THAT.
BUT GENERALLY AT SOME POINT.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH ER WELL
THANK YOU AND I'M GLAD A
CO-SPONSOR THIS AND I DO WANT
TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON NOW FOR ALL HER HARD
WORK ON IT AND I WAS HAPPY TO
LEND SUPPORT TO ADD MY NAME.
IT'S REALLY FITTING THAT WE
BRING THIS FORWARD IN MARCH AS
IT'S WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH AND
AND WOMEN ARE ONE OF THE THE
GROUPS THAT FREQUENTLY ARE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST IN HIRING
WHETHER PURPOSEFULLY OR ARE
IMPLICIT IMPLICITLY.
IN FACT EQUAL PAY DAY WAS MARCH
12TH.
WE DID JUST MARK THAT AND THAT
OF COURSE IS THE DATE THAT
SYMBOLIZES HOW FAR INTO THE
YEAR WOMEN MUST WORK IN ORDER
TO EARN WHAT THEIR MALE
COUNTERPARTS EARNED IN THE
ENTIRE PREVIOUS YEAR AND THAT
IS HIRING AS IT'S BEEN SAID
OF COURSE ELIMINATES THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR THAT
UNCONSCIOUS BIAS LEADING TO A
FAIRER EVALUATION OF THE
CANDIDATES QUALIFICATIONS FOR
THE JOB AT HAND.
AND I DID JUST WANT TO SHARE
SOME STATISTICS FROM VARIOUS
STUDIES OVER THE YEARS THAT
HAVE REALLY FORMED A BASE
OF SUPPORT FOR MOVING IN THIS
DIRECTION WITH HIRING ONE IN
FIVE WOMEN EXPERIENCES GENDER
DISCRIMINATION IN RECRUITMENT,
WHITE SOUNDING NAMES GOT
CALLBACKS FIFTY PERCENT MORE
THAN BLACK SOUNDING NAMES.
FORTY EIGHT PERCENT OF H.R.
MANAGERS DO ADMIT THAT BIAS
AFFECTS THEIR CANDIDATE CHOICE
AND AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND ASIAN
JOB APPLICANTS WHO MASK THEIR
RACE ON RESUMES HAVE BETTER
SUCCESS GETTING JOB INTERVIEWS
SO THOSE ARE ALL REALLY GOOD
REASONS FOR US TO BE MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS.
I DID WANT TO NOTE AS WELL
STUDIES HAVE FOUND THAT
MOTHERS, PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND CANDIDATES WHO
BELONG TO LGBTQ PLUS COMMUNITY
ARE ALSO LESS LIKELY TO BE
CALLED WHEN IDENTIFIED AS SUCH
.
SO AS WE WORK TO DIVERSIFY OUR
CITY WORKFORCE IT IS IMPORTANT
THAT WE TAKE STEPS LIKE THIS
THAT HAVE BEEN SHOWN TO
INCREASE EQUITY IN THE HIRING
PRACTICE AND WILL EVENTUALLY
LEAD TO THAT DIVERSITY THAT
WE'RE SEEKING IN OUR WORKPLACE
COUNCIL RATNAM, THANKS FOR
WORKING ON THIS.
I WAS HAPPY TO SEE IT ON OUR
AGENDA AND ACTUALLY WAS IN A
UNIT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN IMPLEMENTED THIS A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
I HAD A VERY LARGE TEAM
OF ABOUT 30 PEOPLE SO I WAS
DOING A LOT OF HIRING AS YOU
CAN IMAGINE AND WE IMPLEMENTED
THIS AND IT WAS DRAMATIC HOW
MUCH MORE DIVERSE BOTH OUR
POOLS BECAME AS WELL AS WHO WE
ULTIMATELY HIRED.
SO IT JUST APPLIED THIS WORK
AND LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU
KNOW, IT YIELD THE RESULTS WE'D
LIKE TO SEE IN TERMS OF A MORE
DIVERSE WORKFORCE.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE
FAVORITE POSED IT IS APPROVED
ONE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF INTENT
TO ISSUE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
BONDS TO FUND THE DEVELOPMENT
OF ONE TO ONE KATHERINE AS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING NOT TO
EXCEED NINE MILLION.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE A ADDUCTION.
I SUPPOSE WE GOT TO MOVE IN
SECOND.
MY APOLOGIES MOVE BY SOMEBODY
DENHA SAY MACARTHUR RICHARDSON
IS ALL YOU HAVE ARE THINKING
OF LEAVING MAYOR AND COUNCIL
THE QUESTIONS ARE HOW DOES THE
BOND PROPOSAL IMPACT FUTURE USE
OF THE MILLAGE?
FOR EXAMPLE HOW WILL THE
INTEREST ON THE BOND CUT INTO
THE MILLAGE AND HOW OUR STAFF
ARE THINKING ABOUT THE BALANCE
BETWEEN THE AVAILABILITY?
CAN'T READ MY OWN HANDWRITING
THE ABILITY TO USE THE MILLAGE
NOW TO BUILD HOUSING VERSUS THE
ABILITY TO USE IT LATER.
AND THESE ARE ACTUALLY ALL
QUESTIONS THAT WE THOUGHT ABOUT
AND TALKED ABOUT OVER THE YEARS
AND THAT'S WHY WE'RE BRINGING
THIS PROPOSAL FORWARD.
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITHOUT SOME
KIND OF SUBSIDY WHETHER IT'S
LAND OR LOWER INTEREST OR
GRANTS OR ANYTHING THAT BRINGS
THE COST DOWN.
IT CAN TAKE THREE TO FIVE OR
MORE YEARS FROM THE CONCEPT TO
ACTUALLY HAVING CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY.
SO IT'S A LONG PROCESS AND SO
IF YOU DO ONE PROJECT AT A TIME
YOU GO FIVE YEARS THEN YOU
BUILD AND THEN YOU GO FIVE
YEARS AND THEN YOU BUILD YOU
ARE GOING TO TAKE A LOT LONGER
TIME TO BRING YOUR PROJECTS
ONLINE WITH PEOPLE ACTUALLY
MOVING INTO THAT HOUSING.
THE IMPORTANT THING ABOUT THE
WAY THAT WE ARE PROPOSING THIS
FOR BOND FINANCING IS THAT WHEN
I GO OUT TO THE PRIVATE MARKET
TO BORROW MONEY, MY INTEREST
RATE RIGHT NOW IS AROUND EIGHT
PERCENT EVEN THOUGH THE
RESOLUTION SAYS UP TO SEVEN
PERCENT ON COUNCIL THINKS IT'S
GOING TO BE CLOSER TO FIVE
PERCENT.
AND SO THE THE CITIES ABILITY
TO GET LOWER INTEREST RATES
ACTUALLY ENABLES THAT FINANCING
TO GO FARTHER AND ENABLES US TO
UTILIZE VILLAGE SOONER TO GET
HOUSING DONE QUICKER SO THAT IF
YOU THINK ABOUT GETTING ONE
HUNDRED UNITS DONE TOMORROW
WHICH WILL NEVER HAPPEN, LET'S
JUST SAY AND THEN IT'S ONLINE
FOR TEN YEARS VERSUS BRINGING
THOSE ONLINE INTO IN TEN YEARS
YOU HAVE A LOT MORE PEOPLE THAT
ARE HOUSED MUCH QUICKER I HOPE
I ANSWERED THOSE QUESTIONS.
I ME LOOK
I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT THE CITY
DOES CONTROL HOW MUCH MONEY IS
BONDED AND THEY WILL CONSULT
WITH THEIR BOND COUNCIL AND
WITH OUR FINANCE AND CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE CITY IS COMFORTABLE HOLDING
ENOUGH MONEY INTO THE FUTURE TO
BE ABLE TO PAY BACK THAT BOND.
SO WHAT WE USE IT FOR WHAT WE
USE THE MILITARY FOR IS BOTH
PRE DEVELOPMENT COSTS WHICH IS
THINKING IF YOU'RE LIKE LOOKING
AT DEVELOPING A SITE YOU HAVE
AN IDEA WHAT YOU WANT TO DO.
YOU HAVE TO PAY FOR SURVEYORS,
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANTS,
ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS TO DO A
SITE PLAN.
BUT WE ALSO USE IT AS THE VERY
END GAP FINANCING AS AS WHAT IS
NEEDED TO MAKE THE PROJECT
ACTUALLY HAPPEN.
AND SO BY DOING A COMBINATION
OF BOND FINANCING WE CAN
CONTINUE TO DO THE
PREDEVELOPMENT WORK WHILE WE'RE
ALSO DOING ACTUAL LONG TERM
FINANCING OF THE PROJECTS.
SO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
THANK DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON BACK IN
JUNE COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION TO ENCOURAGE THE
INVESTIGATING FUNDING FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND I'D LIKE
TO THANK SO MANY OF MY
COLLEAGUES ON THE TABLE WHO
OFFERED OF A CO-SPONSOR THAT
BUT ESPECIALLY COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG WHO REALLY HAS BEEN
PUSHING THIS ISSUE, ADVOCATING
STRONGLY TALKING ABOUT IT THAT
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD AND EVEN ON
PARKING DAY SHE TALKED ABOUT IT
IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR WITH
RESIDENTS.
SHE'S BEEN TALKING OF THIS
EVERYWHERE SHE GOES AND IT'S A
GREAT PART OF HER LEGACY.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, YOU KNOW,
I THIS IS JUST FINANCIALLY THE
RIGHT THING TO DO.
WE KNOW THAT MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING IS ONLY GETTING MORE
EXPENSIVE TO BUILD.
WE KNOW THAT THE INTEREST RATE
ENVIRONMENT, THE INFLATION
SUPPLY CHAIN CONSTRAINTS ARE
MAKING IT HARDER AND HARDER TO
HOUSING.
SO IT'S MUCH BETTER TO HAVE
THIS MONEY UP FRONT.
I'D LIKE TO THANK MRS HALL MISS
PACHON AND MR. DE HONY FOR FOR
HAVING THIS.
I GUESS THIS GETS CREATIVE
APPROACH REALLY AND JUST TRYING
TO MAKE OUR MONEY GO FURTHER.
THE COMMUNITY IS COMMITTED TO
BUILDING HOUSING TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND WHY NOT
USE THAT MONEY TO ITS FULLEST
EXTENT?
SO IT IS REALLY TRUE.
I DO TELL EVERYONE HOW THIS IS
GOING TO BE AMAZING IF WE FIND
OUT OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
KNOWLEDGE.
I ATTENDED THE MICHIGAN
MUNICIPALITIES CAPTAGON LAST
WEEK IN LANSING AND THAT'S
WHERE MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND
ADMINISTRATORS GATHER AND TALK
ABOUT BEST PRACTICES AND THERE
ARE TWO WORKSHOPS ON HOUSING
AND THE BIGGEST ISSUE IS
FINANCING, FINANCING,
FINANCING, FINANCING.
I THINK IF THERE'S ANYTHING TO
POINT OUT WELL A COUPLE
OF THINGS TO ONE IT WAS NOTED
THAT OUR HOUSING COMMISSIONER
JENNIFER HULL IS ONE OF THE
BEST IN THE STATE.
WELL, RESPECTED, TRUSTED AND
FOLKS ARE FOLLOWING HER WORK SO
WE'RE VERY, VERY LUCKY TO HAVE
THAT EXPERTIZE IN TOWN AND THAT
THAT WAS SHARED BY OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES AND STATE REPS
TOO.
THERE'S AN AMAZING GRAPHIC FROM
THE HOUSING COMMISSION THAT
MAPS OUT THE SOURCES OF OF
FINANCING FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT
AND I THINK IT WAS 11 OR 12
SOURCES OF FINANCING.
WE SHOULD BE THAT SOURCE
OF FINANCING IN AN AGGRESSIVE
WAY.
AND I'M REALLY, REALLY GLAD
THAT BOND COUNCIL AND CITY
ADMINISTRATORS OFFICE HAS IS
SEEING TO THAT AND WE TALK
ABOUT HOW DO WE FIGURE THIS OUT
IN THIS LIFETIME.
I'M SO GLAD THIS WILL HAPPEN IN
LESS THAN TEN YEARS WHICH SEEMS
TO BE THE MARK AND ARBOR SO WE
CAN MAKE THIS HAPPEN IN A YEAR
.
IT'S A MIRACLE.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL BRITISH OFFICE.
MAY I ASK JUST ONE QUESTION
OF MISS HALL SINCE SHE'S HERE?
SO I WAS TRYING TO PUT THIS IN
THE SIMPLEST WAY AND SO THE
SIMPLEST WAY THAT I CAME UP
WITH FOR PUTTING IT IS THAT
BONDING OUT ENABLES THE CITY TO
CLOSE A NINE MILLION DOLLAR
FUNDING GAP IN A THIRTY THREE
MILLION DOLLAR PROJECT THAT'S
ALREADY FUNDED BY MULTIPLE
SOURCES INCLUDING INCLUDING THE
MILLAGE WITHOUT WAITING FOR
REVENUES TO COME IN FROM THE
VILLAGE BECAUSE NINE MILLION IS
MORE THAN WE GET IN A YEAR.
RIGHT.
HOW MUCH DO WE GET IN A YEAR
FROM THE IS MY QUESTION SIR THE
TOTAL AMOUNT IS ABOUT SEVEN
POINT TWO MILLION BUT A PORTION
OF THAT IS FOR THE OVERHEAD AND
STAFFING COST UP FRONT AND AND
THAT LEAVES ABOUT SIX AND A
HALF MILLION A YEAR.
BUT I'VE GOT EIGHT DIFFERENT
PROJECTS HAPPENING AT THE SAME
TIME AND SO I ACTUALLY HAVE
ONLY THE PORTION OF THIS YEAR
AVAILABLE FOR KATHERINE AND SO
WE WOULD HAVE TO USE EVERYTHING
THAT'S AVAILABLE THIS YEAR PLUS
EVERYTHING THAT'S AVAILABLE
NEXT YEAR TO CLOSE THAT GAP FOR
THAT SPECIFIC PROJECT AND NOT
I'D HAVE TO PULL IN EVERY
DOLLAR I'M USING ON OTHER
PROJECTS TO DO IT.
THANK YOU.
SO YOU'VE CLEARLY ILLUSTRATED
YOUR POINT ABOUT IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE MULTIPLE
THINGS GOING ON SIMULTANEOUSLY
BECAUSE IT TAKES SO LONG TO GET
THE FINANCING AND IF YOU HAD TO
USE THAT SIX POINT FIVE MILLION
ON ANY ONE PROJECT THAT WOULD
PUSH OFF FOR TWO AT LEAST TWO
YEARS WORKING ON ALL THE OTHERS
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
>> YEAH, YOU CAN TWO MINUTES
MAKE SURE.
I ALSO WANT TO KNOW HOW THIS
FALLS IN LINE WITH SECRETARY
ELLEN'S ANNOUNCEMENT LAST WEEK
ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S WORK ON
HOUSING AND FINANCING.
AND IF THERE'S ANYTHING THAT WE
CAN DO BEYOND THIS TABLE TO
TALK TO OUR CONGRESSIONAL REPS
AND ENCOURAGE CONGRESS TO
EXTEND THE TAX CREDITS.
YES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I'D LIKE TO EXTEND MY GRATITUDE
TO STEP UP AND DOWN THE LINE.
THIS IS AN EXCITING OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO TO ACCELERATE THE
CONSTRUCTION OF THE FINANCING
AND CONSTRUCTION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DOWNTOWN AND I HOPE AND
BELIEVE THAT IT WILL BE A
PROCESS A REPLICABLE PROCESS.
WE HAVE MANY PROPOSALS FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND MANY
OPPORTUNITIES TO ACCOMPLISH IT
AND WE HAVE A FUNCTIONALLY OR
AT LEAST ON COUNCIL RATIFIED
GUARANTEED SOURCE OVER THE NEXT
NUMBER OF YEARS THANKS TO THE
THE GOOD WORK OF OF COUNCIL AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY STAFF AND THE
AND THE COMMITMENT OF THE
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY
COMMITMENT TO CONVERTING ANN
ARBOR FROM ONE OF THE MOST
ECONOMICALLY SEGREGATED PLACES
IN THE COUNTRY TO ONE THAT
BETTER REPRESENTS OUR VALUES
BETTER REPRESENTS OUR
ASPIRATIONS AND PROVIDES A
PLACE FOR EVERYONE WHO WANTS TO
LIVE IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE CAN ACCOMPLISH THAT THROUGH
THROUGH OUR ADDRESSING HOUSING
SUPPLY AND IN THIS CONTEXT
CRUCIALLY THE BUILDING
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON THEATER POSED IT
IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE TO ROLL CALL IT?
I THINK WE DO WELL THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
WE WE WILL EXTEND THE EXTEND
THE SUSPENSE ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE.
IS BUJI STARTING WITH ME?
I BELIEVE MAYOR TAYLOR YES
COUNCILOR ER YES COUNCILMAN.
YES YES THAT'S RIGHT CORNELL
YES WE'RE DESH.
YES SIR.
HARRISON YES COUNCILOR SONG YES
.
NO I WASN'T.
YES DENHA YES COUNCILMAN GOSIA
YES.
JOHN KERRY.
DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
NO THANK YOU.
MEAN WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CLERKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLASS MOVE.
I CAN WORK AND I'LL SECOND MY
COUNCIL MEMBER IN DISCUSSION ON
THEATER POSED THE CLERKS REPORT
IS APPROVED.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY THEN TODAY
THERE ARE THERE IS NO PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOWN.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED